saMg;iram m;aryaH
vic;akSAZaH viroc;ayan
datte s;am
asTAt et;e
s;ana ca
dev;AnAm ut;a
m;aDu ;A
eS;a n;qBiH
id;am uttam;am
barh;iSi priy;aH
pavasva dizAm
sumn;e iS;ayan
pIy;USaH p;avasva
B;uvanAni v;i
v;ane pUrv;IH
m;aDu priy;am
pIt;aye v;qSA
vA ad;aH
namasy;antIH ;upa
p;avamAnAsaH akramuH
asTuH r;akSaH
akSaraH svAd;uH
jajYAn;am j;enyam
;adAByaH d;aDAti
pad;A varAh;aH
sUn;uH mAt;arA
yUTy:aH v;qSA
yAsi g;onAm
;AyuDAni b;iBrat
kqDi s;amidDaH
s;oma v;izvA
s;antA praTam;am
pinvate pad;am
hinvAn;AsaH r;aTAH
;anu D;Ama
vqtr;AZi sakS;aZiH
prasav;e te
dyumn;avattamaH ;A
sAhv;An indo
;indum ;indre
s;a s;Uryasya
BandanAyat;aH p;iba
duSk;qtaH sah;asraDAre
v;ajraH ca
vyazvav;at p;avamAnAya
r;ajaH et;e
v;izvA aB;i
n;i z;uSmam
aYj;ate v;i
janit;A viB;UvasuH
B;uvanasya pate
p;uraH rurukS;aZim
;avyam Az;avaH
h;arayaH camUS;adaH
t;anA kqZv;antaH
;UDani GqZ;A
v;i rocaya
svAd;uH pavasva
k;Avyena v;i
naH gov;it
t;ena pavasva
pAvak;aH ucyate
miTun;AsaH n;ikAmAH
ut;a dy;OH
m;antavaH ;apa
s;a s;uSwutaH
n;a yujyate
praTam;am y;at
dev;asya matsar;aH
y;ujyAya s;omam
yemAn;aH ;adriBiH
param;e vy:omani
g;oBiH v;qSaZam
t;qptiH ca
t;am AhuH
pracet;ayan arSati
;Asate k;Amasya
;anUSata ;ayohatam
s;am aranta
yuts;u praTam;aH
div;i ;A
sanut;ar hurazc;itaH
sapt;a s;inDavaH
syAma pqtanyat;aH
mqjy;amAnAH g;aBastyoH
j;anA yAt;ayan
h;ariH Gqt;asnuH
ripr;am ;aviH
manIS;I aMz;oH
cit t;akave
m;aDumantam pav;itre
jan;ayan ;indrAya
y;atra braDn;asya
yAti svaD;ayA
Danva braDn;aH
c;Arum z;arDAya
vicarSaZe ;A
ady;a v;arivaH
ev;a deva
qt;asya gop;AH
sIdata daDn;A
kqSwih;A iva
s;Urye n;a
t;at naH
saMsrav;AH s;am
D;ArAm ;anu
iva s;adane
vrat;e aB;i
sT;AvirIH asqkSata
asya pavIt;Aram
v;qSavrataH p;avamAnaH
camv:oH naBasm;ayam
pary;eti vizv;ataH
;agre vAc;aH
g;uhyam n;Ama
g;iraH s;omaH
sah;asradAtu pazum;at
mqjanti veD;asaH
;A y;e
navanta vAy;uH
v;ahniH aps;u
;indavaH saD;asTam
j;ohuvat y;asya
p;iprataH n;ABA
D;armAZi qtuT;A
vAj;I tir;aH
soma D;Ama
r;aMhamAZA v;i
Ad;ize y;aH
vizv;adarzataH asm;aByam
priy;aH p;atiH
n;aBaH p;ayaH
dev;aH dev;eByaH
;it ;arAtIH
tiSWati r;aTam
trit;asya ;aDi
svaD;AH ;indreZa
Den;uH n;a
soma g;opatI
yajat;aH saMyat;aH
svarv;idam ;indrAya
v;i adyOt
sv;azvyam v;aha
azvay;A zukr;AsaH
mat;iBiH punAn;aH
ca mahivrata
Druv;e s;adasi
p;atim kal;aze
kqZv;an Gan;A
n;a tanyat;uH
y;aH ;ojiSWaH
oZy:oH s;arat
D;ArayA pAvak;ayA
r;asasya matsata
biBarti v;aruZam
n;aBasA aB;i
dyum;An asi
hav;iH Baranti
gaCati ;agre
upAr;uhaH zraT;ayan
vqkt;abarhiSaH mah;e
p;ari b;qhasp;ate
v;asu ;indo
Ay;avaH p;avante
kav;iH s;omaH
s;AnO avy;aye
;anDasA zrIZ;antaH
asya k;artvA
yaCati y;aH
iSyati s;iSAsan
AyuS;ak ;indram
y;ajyave g;AH
;ati yAti
zukr;AsaH vIray;A
h;ariH punAn;aH
gAt;um br;ahmaZe
y;Atave t;am
;aCa v;Ajam
rAjati tveS;am
s;anti D;UrvaZe
h;ariH s;am
avyata priy;aH
vqSaB;aH g;oSu
pavasva p;avasva
punAn;aH akramIt
ca ap;aH
Azata m;adeSu
arc;iSi ;agne
vqSaB;aH vicakSaZ;aH
BrAj;A n;a
arUrucat r;odasI
v;AryA v;asUni
indo dyumn;avattamaH
parj;anyaH vqSwim;An
Urm;ayaH vidAn;AH
gAtuv;it ;A
g;oSu gaCati
;A s;Uryam
urugAy;asya jUt;im
dy;AvApqTiv;I huvema
;qkvaBiH tv;am
aB;i ven;AH
tvA hinvanti
qt;asya doh;anAH
arSati asazc;ataH
div;aH citr;am
n;qBiH nqc;akSAH
;ojasA sut;aH
ap;aH suv;IrAsaH
manIS;iBiH pavate
kqD;i praj;AvatIH
ca s;omaH
v;izvA p;ari
cakrir;e pIt;aye
camUS;adaH g;aCantaH
g;AvaH mimanti
jUrZ;Am ;ati
;aCa ;indrasya
Az;avaH vAzr;AH
y;aH devayat;Am
;apa dvay;um
sazcima ;anaptam
veda B;UmanaH
sudakSa Danva
gAtuv;ittamaH dev;eByaH
hqd;A ;asya
pad;am yujAn;aH
mqSw;aH aB;i
;ekam ;akSi
;adriBiH ;indum
dAz;uSe eS;a
aBr;avarSAH v;qTA
kav;im m;aMhiSWam
p;avatAm ;A
;akqZot ulok;am
dev;Aya D;ArayA
aB;i vAvazre
dev;An sv;ena
s;inDUnAm p;avamAnaH
indo naH
v;ahniH n;a
lok;e sv:ar
baBro ;UDani
s;ome ark;AH
dv;ArA matIn;Am
r;AjA pavate
vAj;I n;i
dev;Aya sadanAs;ade
n;a v;i
indavaH punAn;AH
aDvar;am r;AjA
pUrvy;aH Ay;uH
azyAma purukqt
m;adasya D;ArayA
z;qVgAZi d;oDuvat
aheSata s;inDoH
rAy;Am Anet;A
y;atra anukAm;am
te r;asaH
asadaH s;aH
marmqjAn;aH indriy;Aya
s;am g;AH
z;uciH pr;a
yAta p;ibaDyE
;induH eS;a
indo dyumn;e
sIdati jy;otiH
;ojasA sah;asraDAraH
;qSayaH sT;AvirIH
y;oSaZaH h;arim
praz;iSaH n;avIyasIH
t;am saKAyaH
div;aH k;avanDam
zradD;Am v;adan
parAv;ati y;e
v;Ajam ;induH
mah;Im ;iSam
sot;qBiH jan;ayan
veD;Am meD;ayA
kS;ipaH s;am
mah;e y;uvAnam
;ava t;e
soma m;aDumattamaH
m;ahi dyukS;atamaH
tr;iH sapt;a
;avanti asya
p;ari m;adena
n;a codayaH
v;izvA B;uvanA
paYc;asu t;e
draps;AH udapr;utaH
v;AjAn soma
d;aDAta k;etam
vAy;um ;A
naH sutAsaH
;iti kSara
j;anmanA dev;aH
punAn;aH varDa
hav;iH t;ena
taranti duSk;qtaH
qt;Aya pIt;aye
g;AvaH ;indum
j;uSwaH ;indrAya
s;omaH sut;aH
p;avase mat;I
hit;aH n;qBiH
akSaran sut;AH
y;aH savit;A
gqZAn;aH aB;i
vrat;Ani n;a
z;uciH jAt;aH
qtAy;uBiH mqjy;amAnaH
vacyasva sudakSa
v;adan satyakarman
sut;am B;arAya
paz;O n;a
dev;avAtam aps;u
arohayaH div;i
sut;aH k;ArSman
dev;An v;izvAni
vidv;An z;UraH
aGny;AH aB;i
pur;A naH
;adabDaH suraB;intaraH
zriy;e s;am
h;i sma
ca pinvase
vIt;I j;anasya
j;anam eS;a
al;Ayyasya paraz;uH
;indram g;aCantaH
naH arAtIv;A
B;UmI ;A
g;avyUtiH ;aditeH
g;aviSwaye mah;e
pr;a kqSwih;A
;avizat eS;a
Im Gqtad;uhaH
suparZ;aH avyaT;iH
sapt;a yahv;IH
upavakt;A iva
v;Ajam saniSy;an
n;a vqSw;iH
asiSyadat aB;i
r;ajAMsi D;ArayA
qt;asya mAt;araH
jigatn;avaH Druv;AH
arSati kr;atvA
y;atra mumucm;ahe
div;e-dive pur;UZi
varivov;it vayoD;AH
m;adyam r;asam
div;aH pqTivy;AH
m;qDaH jahi
santi s;etavaH
indriy;am jy;AyaH
paT;A y;adi
mAsva bqhat;IH
z;izum jajYAn;am
g;AvaH parIZas;am
krIxati ;adriBiH
g;omantam ;invati
pAn;aH am;qtasya
t;am ;induH
v;adan soma
kS;ara sahasr;iZIH
yAhi niSkqt;am
;indo v;izvABiH
Irate t;antum
pavasva y;aH
r;etasi sUn;oH
qt;EH ;avarData
r;asaH ;avyaH
pavate s;omaH
pavamAna D;AmanI
D;iyaH et;e
pariSw;uBaH gqZAn;aH
DAraya ;iSam
naH vidv;An
tvA m;adAya
y;e te
udagrAB;asya nam;ayan
s;a y;aH
y;aTA ;apavaTAH
sah;asracakSase y;asya
ady;a vqZImahe
Bara svarv;idam
n;AmAni yahv;aH
g;avyAni avyata
tqt;Iye santu
aB;i s;OBagA
;A y;ena
;avye vqSw;im
m;aDumattamaH sut;aH
asya vIry:am
iva aB;i
punIhi vizv;ataH
suSWAn;e r;odasI
Im trit;asya
indo v;qSA
As;adam s;a
;iSaH y;aH
n;avyase vizvavAra
vAjay;uH punAn;aH
;adAByaH s;omaH
kav;iH y;onO
v;icarSaZim ;indum
m;adaH p;ari
;A ;indrasya
soma mand;ayan
;induH akSAr
y;eSu v;arDate
;atyavim t;am
dUrak;e ca
Bava sUpasT;ABiH
hinvanti ;adriBiH
p;avamAna ray;im
usr;iyABiH pratir;an
biBy;uSA t;e
pratn;eBiH ;aDvaBiH
reB;aH vanuSyate
br;ahma t;ena
iSir;AsaH adr;uhaH
s;omaH ;ati
asmay;uH saty;Ani
;indum sah;asracakSasam
aznavat razm;iBiH
ih;a u
r;AjA v;Acam
;upa ca
n;a Den;avaH
Diy;A n;a
;aZvIH samary;e
zrIZItana ;indum
sut;eSu AB;uvaH
asvaran div;aH
p;avamAnAsaH ;indavaH
;apa tv;acam
Ay;avaH r;asam
mqjAn;aH g;oBiH
kS;ipABiH s;am
y;onim v;anyam
n;ihitam y;at
ganDarv;aH ;aDi
;indavaH p;avate
t;at y;atra
baBr;ave n;u
Im hinvanti
zravasy;avaH n;a
vIr;avat ;azvAvat
y;aH urv;Im
kSarantu m;aDumat
s;ahasaH parvatAv;qDam
mandray;uvaH vipany;uvaH
s;am DIt;ayaH
paT;iBiH y;e
indrap;AnaH kqZv;an
;aCa s;aniSyadat
samudramIVKaya p;avasva
kav;iH ay;am
st;ukA iva
y;atra am;qtAsaH
p;avamAnena s;uSwutAH
suv;Iryam yUy;am
s;aKAyam ;A
m;ahaH ;A
minAti D;IraH
naH gqh;am
dIDaram s;a
;avAtaH aB;i
v;AjeSu codaya
v;Ajam vAj;I
s;omAsaH g;oBiH
hit;aH n;a
vic;aran vAj;ayan
daDn;A ;it
mat;IH v;eH
riZanti barh;iSi
vIr;eZa vIravaH
kav;iH y;aH
m;aDvaH aMz;uH
y;at ca
marmqjy;amAnaH ;atyaH
pUt;AH vipazc;itaH
g;oBiH zrIZIta
syandasva s;oma
usr;iyaH v;qSA
r;odasI Diy;A
suy;amA s;arasvatI
p;qTak Den;uH
sarv;atAtaye bqhat;e
t;at s;omaH
v;asAnaH arSasi
bqh;at ;arSat
tv;am h;i
vagn;um indriy;am
pit;aram ;A
div;aH z;izuH
pr;a gAyatr;eZa
azvahay;EH ;anizitam
t;uByam v;AtAH
p;avamAna zrav;Ayyam
;indo ;indrasya
gAyata p;avamAnam
;ava cakSi
y;onO qt;asya
priy;am t;am
naH yajY;am
tvA nqmZ;Ani
m;adaH sut;aH
vqSaB;aH vqSAy;ate
apapr;oTantaH sanut;ar
nud;asva y;AH
pr;a D;ArA
samudr;am s;inDavaH
niD;ApatiH suk;qttamAH
jy;otIMSi pavamAna
vqSan v;qSA
st;uBaH aB;i
vay;am D;anA
Ut;iBiH jy;ok
jIv;ase tv;am
s;am ajEH
p;ari v;ArAZi
gAhate d;aDat
div;aH v;asu
r;AjA dev;AnAm
p;avamAnasya vizvavit
naH y;at
sv:ar s;iSAsan
v;Ajapastyam ;A
;A asmin
rUp;am n;a
m;aDvaH agriy;aH
hinvAn;AsaH n;a
s;Uryam v;asAnaH
svaDvar;aH s;omaH
nirZ;ijam Dire
hinv;anti sapt;a
m;artyeSu ;A
;agne t;ena
pun;antu m;Am
;induH satr;AcA
g;AH ;ataH
Urm;iZA h;arim
D;ArA m;aDvaH
tvA sah;asracakSasam
vAjas;qt k;anikranti
h;aste asya
sIdati yajY;asya
v;i DAvasi
;A dev;AnAm
d;aDat stotr;e
punIh;i ;indrAya
codayaH aB;i
kr;atuH ;induH
y;ajate p;arImaZi
ayakSm;AH bqhat;IH
;avyam sam;ayA
s;ahaH j;uvaH
n;avyase n;avIyase
;indrasya Bavasi
v;iSZum m;atsi
y;am I
;ojasA marmqjy;ante
acikradat punAn;aH
kqZute nad;ISu
s;omam qt;asya
;A suS;Ava
Gqt;am pavasva
p;UrvAsaH ;uparAsaH
k;am papuH
priy;am ;agan
sah;asraZItiH y;atiH
;astuH m;anasA
y;aH asm;An
;arAvZaH p;avamAnAH
Az;avaH Diy;A
;indo samudramIVKaya
arSati v;qSaZam
pav;itrA v;itatAni
u ca
n;a y;onim
y;UnA ha
Dar;uZeSu Ar;aBam
pavasva sahasrajit
ca n;azan
prasnAp;ayanti Urm;iZam
p;avamAnaH stqZ;an
m;adAnAm ;indraH
dyukS;aH san;adrayiH
;A n;i
jy;otiH v;izvam
h;ariH ;indrasya
c;Arum sukqty;ayA
ant;ar r;odasI
ty;am pUrvy;am
c;akSAZaH arSati
k;qtvyAH iva
p;avamAnaH asr;iDam
s;omaH dev;AnAm
s;inDUn v;i
p;avantAm ;A
m;aMhiSWam aDvar;e
v;i pavamAna
soma z;atrUn
BiS;ak brahm;A
;indrAya G;qSvayaH
Az;iram s;omaH
vAj;iBiH yat;aH
D;ArayA mar;utvate
arSati ruj;at
Ay;ave hinv;anti
p;azyamAnAsaH ;Apyam
pavate svAd;uH
s;inDUnAm B;avan
s;omAsaH svADy:aH
sy;a D;ArayA
apas;eDan durit;A
v;iSZave ;iSam
s;inDoH Urm;eH
jAm;iBiH n;qDUtaH
;A dAv;ane
;azvayA iva
m;aDumattamaH ;indrAya
Den;avaH ;agman
soma tasT;atuH
Bavatu priy;aH
n;a ;indrAt
divy;aH dAnupinv;aH
g;aBastyoH aB;i
sahasras;AH zatas;AH
v;iH Barat
p;aYca D;IraH
mah;Antam tvA
;A suvAn;aH
g;aBastyoH vqSAy;ate
s;Uryam sah;a
kal;azam m;aDumAn
;avarAZi ;A
saty;Ani kqZv;an
s;inDoH iva
mar;udByaH vAy;ave
svarv;it k;ozam
indra s;omam
p;aYca prad;izaH
y;ujyAya ;agne
v;i s;OBagA
g;ATayA purAZy;A
;AyuDA s;a
viSw;apam jan;ayan
v;i ca
p;ari adravat
kav;iH dev;avItaye
v;itate pav;itre
;indram r;aTAH
veD;asaH ;avyaH
pratn;AsaH Ay;avaH
yanti Den;avaH
naH jah;i
Bara tv;am
ena sumat;im
pavamAna pUyase
kany:Asu naH
maDuzc;utam s;a
gavy;A s;omAsaH
kal;aze usr;iyABiH
praj;ApatiH v;anasp;atim
v;izvA G;aniGnat
m;adaH nqmZ;A
ulokakqtn;um Imahe
;A div;aH
pavasva adveS;e
y;adum p;ari
ven;AH anUSata
k;ozam div;aH
rohayaH div;i
iSyasi ;indo
SaSw;im sah;asrA
srava ;adabDaH
cit y;asya
;aditeH ;aDi
te s;argAH
Den;avaH h;ariH
naH sah;asrA
uB;e dy;AvApqTiv;I
aB;i z;UraH
suv;Iryam suvAn;AH
yoS;itam eS;a
pavasva s;anitA
adr;uhe vIt;I
jahi apaGn;antaH
avyaT;iH Barat
hinv;anti s;Uram
c;akSuH cit
D;ArAH asqkSata
Baja t;ava
s;am ;indreZa
s;amqtA s;eDati
punAn;am p;ari
yAhi ;indrasya
ugr;eByaH cit
div;aH hinv;an
n;a s;Anu
d;aza svaD;ABiH
dasm;aH aB;i
arSati viGn;an
;induH hinvAn;aH
car;uH n;a
praTanta D;iyaH
r;akSAMsi sukrato
tan;UnAm vqZIm;ahe
rayIZ;Am v;AjeSu
y;onim DarZas;iH
v;qSA ;it
apaGn;an pavase
v;AcaH Irate
p;qzniH agriy;aH
asi mahat;aH
dAtr;asya dAt;A
mah;e mad;intamasya
mat;ayaH s;am
p;ari DAva
vizv;AyuH v;izvAH
dizAm pate
zrIZAn;AH aps;u
n;a p;atvA
d;EvIH ;anu
vrat;am ;anu
D;ArayA mandr;ayA
asy;a vqtrahan
zr;avaH vidaH
DarZas;im dUt;am
asya param;e
ar;iH h;i
t;uByam sunve
gqh;am Gqt;am
p;avasva v;AjasAtaye
giriSW;Am aps;u
biBarti B;uvanAni
pr;a svAn;AsaH
sumat;im yAti
m;aDumAn astu
suv;Iryam asm;e
k;armaBiH ;A
kqZv;antaH v;arivaH
Gqt;avantam As;adam
sot;qBiH ;aDi
pr;a senAn;IH
zumB;amAnAH qtAy;uBiH
v;oXA raG;uvartaniH
aMz;uH pav;itre
;iSam ;IzAnaH
vipazc;ite p;avamAnAya
n;qBiH am;qtaH
barh;iSi priy;am
s;aKA iva
ukS;aZam hiraZyapAv;AH
devAH punIt;a
agqBZan t;am
asaran punAn;AH
v;i k;ozam
ca p;avamAna
D;Ama g;onAm
;indrAya maMh;anA
stan;ayantI aBr;EH
;AyuDA saMz;izAnaH
dev;Aya j;anmane
vAj;I zuBr;eBiH
BUrid;AByaH cit
pratn;am n;i
enam ;ahrutAH
vqtrahan v;aso
s;oma vrat;eSu
aB;i g;AvaH
s;am dev;EH
ugr;AZAm indo
mantrak;qtAm st;omEH
mIX;e s;aptiH
g;oH sah;asram
madiSWa vIt;aye
aruS;aH v;qSA
Az;avaH m;aDoH
B;agAya vAy;ave
vAj;inam mqj;anti
pIt;aye aB;i
t;ena naH
Ay;avaH v;qTA
amatsata y;adi
asm;aByam ;arAvA
s;Idan mqg;aH
mAt;qBiH ;induH
pr;a punAn;asya
niy;utvAn m;aDvaH
Ap;qCyam Dar;uZam
h;iraZyavat kS;ara
ukS;A m;aDupqSWam
m;AnuSIH ap;aH
jyot;IraTaH pavate
s;omaH dev;aH
pIt;aye t;asya
;aviBiH g;oBiH
qZvanti kAr;avaH
sot;qBiH pUyate
;upa asmE
sut;am s;oma
r;odasI mAt;arA
v;astrA raBas;Ani
n;a s;inDuH
s;ahamAnaH pqtany;Un
g;AvaH Den;avaH
znaTiSwana s;aKAyaH
svarv;idaH t;arat
vqSaZyati n;aktoS;AsA
div;e-dive ay;am
z;atrUn aB;i
Irate tisr;aH
rUp;AZi Aviz;an
;indrAya indo
mqjy;ate g;oBiH
kart;am ;ava
;azvaH v;oXA
s;omaH divy;Ani
sp;azaH sv;aYcaH
citr;atamam pavasva
m;aDvaH s;Udam
sut;aH vid;e
tvA d;aza
c;etasA mqz;ase
pr;a zukr;AsaH
v;iDarmaZi tv;am
viGn;an ;aDi
soma pavamAna
suSvAZ;aH ;adriBiH
p;ari v;izvAni
pazyate j;AH
n;araH s;anIxABiH
k;Ucit sat;IH
sah;asraDAraH tir;aH
sut;aH s;ana
j;anmane svAd;uH
mah;An ;indo
meSy:aH s;am
hinv;e v;AjeSu
s;argAH asqkSata
v;Ak jy;eSWasya
;Urjam ;iSam
dev;eSu patyate
g;oBiH ajyate
p;avamAna ;ABqtam
;A ;indram
d;EvyA huve
pavasva madintama
siYcata sut;am
kAr;avaH v;qSZaH
y;onim s;adanam
sam;ayA ;ati
tv;am samudr;aH
m;ahi ps;araH
n;a s;inDUn
akramuH ;At
g;oBiH ;uttaraH
gIrB;iH vAsayAmasi
rev;atIH ;iSaH
s;a trit;asya
m;atsi dy;AvApqTiv;I
k;ozam Asate
catv;Ari any;A
tv;Am dev;AsaH
dev;EH dyAvApqTivI
vA aryam;aZA
v;i ratnaD;AH
sicyate h;ariH
vacov;it aDvasm;aBiH
y;e pavamAna
nid;aH spar
asya t;antavaH
soma sikt;aH
v;AjasAtaye p;avasva
asarat v;qSA
p;invamAnA div;e-dive
h;i aVg;a
daD;e sv:ar
UrZute tv;e
saKy;am Aviz;an
mat;iBiH p;ariSkqtam
indriy;am r;asam
n;a s;UryaH
barh;aZA gir;A
v;i yAti
;aDa priy;am
aDukSata ;indram
sv;asyAH ;arAtyAH
z;uSmam uttam;am
;aDi rocan;e
c;itAnAH g;oH
g;AH indo
pavamAna v;iSZum
vAc;aH ;adAByam
asm;e v;AjaH
v;AtAH aBipr;iyaH
akqpanta pUrv;IH
;avqZIta dev;An
asm;e zr;avAMsi
aB;i zr;iyaH
kal;aze dev;avAtaH
s;omAya vyazvav;at
indo pavase
samiT;A mit;adrO
;iti y;aH
veD;asaH ap;aH
gavy;an aB;i
rAy;aH suv;Iryasya
y;onim ;ayohatam
punAn;aH v;Acam
zv;Anam arAD;asam
D;ArayA anUp;e
ven;AH avIvipan
pur;UZi sAt;aye
Dart;A asi
uttam;am hav;iH
Bara s;oma
savit;A saty;amanmA
dev;An qtAv;qDaH
pav;itre s;omam
jayasi zr;avaH
;ajIjanaH amqta
zat;ahimAya g;onAm
qt;am yat;e
;azvyam varm;I
s;a vAy;um
;amqktena r;uzatA
aB;i ;indram
indo m;adeSu
druS;at camv:oH
;azvEH maG;avA
im;AH p;aYca
gqZAn;AH zr;avase
aps;AH yAti
gavy;A jigAti
n;a pur;i
aB;i saty;aH
k;AvyA ;anu
pratn;ena j;anmanA
B;arAya kAr;iZaH
rAy;aH puruB;USu
v;i aznate
D;anutrIH h;ariH
vidaH j;AyamAnaH
z;uciH punAn;aH
pavasva viz;e
pavate samudr;aH
m;aDumattamaH sah;asram
priy;aH h;ariH
asi pr;a
zoc;iSA v;i
v;i DArayaH
daDe D;IrAH
prav;atA yat;IH
gUrt;iBiH s;am
mah;aH puruzcandr;asya
sut;AsaH mad;intamAH
pavate indra
s;omasya pIt;aye
vyAnaz;iH pavase
daz;aBiH kS;ipABiH
yahv;atIH ;ApaH
marmqjy;ate D;iyaH
hinvAn;AsaH ;indavaH
sacate s;inDuSu
s;Uryasya dr;oZam
h;astayoH Ad;aDAnaH
pUy;amAnaH dev;aH
priy;e sadaH
hit;aH ;induH
dv;AraH dev;IH
y;e ;anti
;apracetasaH t;am
;A t;u
Diy;aH s;a
avIvazat y;aH
m;adeSu ;A
matsar;am eS;a
;Ize y;aH
kqZv;an samIcIn;e
v;asAnaH v;aruZaH
naH tv;am
daDuH ;indum
v;iprasya D;ArayA
p;Atave n;qBiH
aB;i sp;qDaH
soma tasTire
;anu praB;USataH
asadat zuBr;am
ca punat;e
pav;itram Az;avaH
mad;intamasya D;ArayA
g;oH apIcy:am
soma kr;atve
p;avamAnaH v;icarSaZiH
j;anasya g;opatim
ajy;amAnaH s;ome
sicyate m;aDu
;adriBiH ;indram
yuyoDi naH
z;arma vIr;avat
v;izvam ;Aryam
pIt;aye sut;aH
gaCantu vaH
Buvat ukT;am
ay;am punAn;aH
;arvate z;am
iva m;aDumAn
ary;aH ;A
naBasm;ayam s;Uryasya
srava ;upa
;indram s;omaH
naH h;iraZyA
darzat;AsaH jigatn;avaH
t;am s;ome
;indram vqtr;Aya
m;AnuSA yug;A
varivasya punAn;aH
h;i s;a
s;a ady;a
agriy;aH v;AcaH
nirZ;ik avy;ayI
p;ari ;indo
g;oBiH akt;am
kS;arantaH parvatAv;qDaH
samudr;am ;A
ark;EH k;anikradat
s;omaH mIXv;An
indo p;avamAnaH
B;areSu jigy;uSAm
;it r;AjAnam
Im haMs;aH
DAvati ;A
s;anemi tv;am
dyum;antam tvA
viroc;ayan ay;am
mqz;ase p;avase
daz;aBiH jAm;iBiH
diviy;ajaH mandr;atamAH
ukTy:am mah;Amahivratam
sUr;iSu zr;avaH
aB;i n;aram
j;aVGnataH h;areH
arAtIv;A m;A
zukr;AsaH ;indavaH
dev;avItim p;ari
y;am tvA
v;aruZasya D;armaZA
sut;aH Gqt;am
te ;AzvinIH
;agne ;AyUMSi
sapt;a DIt;iBiH
y;at g;arBaH
;anu j;anAn
c;ekitat s;am
jaW;are viza
h;Ardi codaya
nimn;ena iva
mitr;am m;atsi
b;ADase soma
s;an z;azvat
camv:oH br;ahma
iyarti vAy;uBiH
v;izveBiH aMz;uBiH
sy;a v;qSA
it;aH usr;iyaH
;ati t;An
p;uraMDyA ;ajIjanaH
y;at s;iSAsati
p;avamAnasya j;aVGnataH
vAvqD;uH t;AH
m;eDiraH svaD;ayA
g;ave dev;eByaH
itT;A pad;am
v;Aram n;a
nqmZ;A punAn;aH
s;am tr;I
D;ArAH k;armaZA
ray;im n;i
kav;iH m;ahi
praty;aV s;a
v;Ajin s;argAH
m;adAya sah;asraDAraH
k;anikradat v;qSA
yat;aH aB;i
p;ArTivA p;avatAm
viveda n;ihitam
y;AH ;ekam
jUt;aH purum;eDaH
zr;iyam v;ayaH
svAyuD;aH pavate
rocaya r;ucaH
;upAvasuH ;A
n;a dugD;am
indriy;Aya vanv;an
;arvatAm iva
hinvAn;aH janit;A
;indraH p;ibAt
zoBate ukS;A
zuBAyate ;aDi
t;uByam g;AvaH
k;anikradat t;anUn;apAt
v;izvAni v;AryA
pratn;AH qZvanti
;A d;akSiZA
adaDAvat ;arvA
vAjay;antaH r;aTAH
b;qhasp;atiH s;UryaH
v;AjAya mqjyate
c;Arum ;ajIjanan
B;avaTaH ;anapacyutA
jAm;iH ;atke
y;oSAm aB;i
y;aH ;induH
s;inDoH Urm;O
vats;aH iva
dUr;e vA
asarat cam;USu
;adriBiH tir;aH
siSAsati eS;a
cakradat v;ane
p;ayaH ay;am
Ay;avaH punAn;aH
sar;aTam r;ADaH
;apa tv;Am
b;alam d;aDAnaH
pavamAna codaya
Den;uBiH kal;aze
v;ipraH vicakSaZ;aH
zuBr;AH asqgram
asmE gAyata
vipazc;itaH ap;Am
avyata t;ava
parAv;ataH n;a
d;aza marmqjy;ante
soma rakS;asaH
;anapacyutaH ray;im
dev;eSu dev;aH
nAv;AH anUSata
sakS;aZiH dviS;aH
;A ruja
aBizrIZ;an p;ayaH
Aj;O pracet;ayan
aMz;um duhanti
;arpitaH tv;am
BuriS;Aw ayoji
draps;aH vAvqDe
n;a pr;a
kave v;Ajin
Den;avaH p;avamAna
madir;aH m;adAya
svaD;A ca
soma mqxaya
s;adanAni ;aCa
v;asAnaH ;arSati
ah;am n;aktam
sut;aH rakSoh;A
daDiSe g;iraH
vAy;um aB;i
pratn;am saD;asTam
arSa ;azvam
v;Acam upavakt;A
;avye punAn;am
r;aMhyA aBy;arSan
v;izvAH aB;i
v;icarSaZiH aps;AH
s;Uryasya razm;iBiH
hinv;an qt;asya
vqtrah;antamaH p;arSi
granT;im n;a
j;AtavedaH punIh;i
s;a B;ikSamAZaH
udvarD;ayan g;iraH
sAsahv;An soma
pavasva sahasr;iZaH
div;aH krAZ;A
n;a j;Iyate
p;UrveByaH zatas;AH
k;armaZA dev;avItO
indo pav;itre
pUt;aH aty;eSi
bqh;antam ray;im
ay;am z;arDAya
sv;asAraH ;aditeH
D;ArAH dev;ajAtAH
y;adi s;abanDavaH
arSati sah;asraDAraH
hant;A v;izvasya
s;omaH s;ahaH
vAj;I hit;aH
pit;A eSAm
s;inDuH n;a
;ati v;ArAn
svard;qzaH y;onO
vaH saKAyaH
dev;atAte indo
kqDi acod;asaH
j;aGniH vqtr;am
;invati p;avamAnaH
;akSitam z;aryABiH
t;am I
pr;a asya
p;avamAnam juSanta
iva har;itA
mqj;anti s;ugaBastayaH
adveS;e dy;AvApqTiv;I
nikAm;AH ca
niy;utvAn iSw;ayAmA
asya d;aMsasA
jaW;are punAn;aH
kAr;iZaH punAn;aH
suvAn;aH akSAr
y;at im;e
n;i n;ediSWatamAH
v;qSA h;arI
br;ahma nirZ;ije
n;amasA ;it
hit;am ;avyaH
pr;a reB;aH
v;asUni pibdan;A
d;asyum avrat;am
sut;aH viz;Am
v;iSZave s;omaH
n;a jUrZ;Am
ap;Am iva
dr;oZAni As;adam
s;am d;akSeZa
g;onAm ;indrasya
arcata h;astacyuteBiH
jajYatuH g;uhA
aDvar;e mat;IH
;induH punAn;aH
priy;AH anUSata
jaW;aram ;A
s;ADate gir;A
vIt;e aDvar;e
punAn;aH ;atyaH
d;akSAya s;ADanam
;At asya
ca sUr;ayaH
naH kS;etram
;AtEH jihate
;atyaH vicakSaZ;aH
s;omaH v;qSA
s;ukqtam n;i
ucc;A te
p;ari suvAn;AsaH
kav;iH s;an
n;asate s;ADate
DAntu suv;Iryam
pav;itre ;AhitaH
BIm;Ani ;AyuDA
dadAtu vIr;avantam
qtAv;qDA s;a
p;avasva adBy;aH
Gn;antaH v;izvAH
;qSiBiH s;amBqtam
eS;a suvAn;aH
v;i ;A
s;omAH asqgram
hinv;anti y;Atave
;avasA sy;Ama
arSa divy;A
r;asaH ;ava
jaW;are s;am
mah;An mah;I
u pav;itram
pr;a s;omaH
tvA ray;im
sapt;a h;otAraH
z;ocantaH saMd;ahantaH
haryat;aH y;atra
kr;andan eti
s;a Im
yanti sud;uGAH
mahat;aH upabd;iH
yajY;iyaH p;arA
r;aTeBiH Az;uBiH
kavIn;Am mat;I
im;Am ur;oH
iva daDanvir;e
qt;aH kav;iH
m;aDumAn acikradat
samajy;ase ;A
y;am dev;AsaH
saMyat;aH m;adaH
s;am jiGnate
ut;a any;asyAH
agriy;aH g;oSu
;azvam g;Am
asqgran v;ArAn
k;Amyam m;aDu
j;anmanaH vidv;An
tuvidyumn;am viBvAs;aham
;aCa m;aDumantaH
hinvAn;aH qt;am
nanakSe ;atyaH
Barat s;uBqtam
p;avasva DiS;aZAByaH
;arpitaH h;ariH
;indrAya v;qSaZam
;ixAvatIm zaMg;ayIm
skamB;aH Dar;uZaH
daDy;aV aporZut;e
;anDaH ;aBarat
reB;aH y;at
gAtuv;it vizv;adevaH
yAhi asmay;uH
aMz;um pariy;antam
v;qTA kr;IxantaH
g;avye ;aDi
arSanti sasr;utaH
tv;am deva
ray;iH B;agaH
n;a razm;iBiH
v;iDarman jan;ayan
agriy;aH ukS;A
y;aH div;aH
sah;asraDAre v;itate
n;a t;at
r;atnAni dAz;uSe
asAviSuH mat;im
;A kal;azeSu
soma zrav;Ayyam
vAy;ave svarj;it
y;uDyan ;ava
;adrim uSZ;an
te sat;aH
arSa mah;AnAm
aprAH kr;atUn
asvaran ;asarji
qtAy;uBiH mqjy;amAnAH
v;aruZaH tir;aH
stotr;asya pavamAna
pavasva en;A
im;An ;avarAn
vanv;antaH Am;uraH
siSAsasi asy;a
dasyut;arhaZA qZ;A
;qBvasaH praB;oH
v;asu s;omaH
Ay;uBiH pr;ayasvAn
Im pit;uH
nqS;AH asi
B;AratI p;avamAnasya
zuBr;AvatA paT;A
DIj;avaH m;adAH
sIda n;qBiH
pavamAna s;Uryam
br;ahma praj;Avat
riz;AdAH B;ara
s;am agmata
m;adacyutaH D;ArA
v;izvA y;at
et;e v;izvAni
deva AyuS;ak
m;aDumattamaH qt;asya
mar;utvate ca
soma divy;eSu
;amartyaH v;izvAni
dIrGajihvy:am y;aH
sIdati reB;aH
;indrAya s;omaH
brahm;A sunv;antam
v;icarSaZiH hit;aH
s;omaH qt;am
s;am apsuj;it
m;aryaH iva
y;ujam v;AjeSu
piz;aVgam indavaH
v;ane kr;Ixantam
n;a jAr;aH
p;ari srava
jah;i pavamAna
svarv;idam DanaMjay;aH
ray;im vqSw;idyAvaH
r;akSa s;u
rAy;e d;uraH
v;i BAsi
s;oma citr;ABiH
n;asate r;akSate
anUSata ;aDi
;A gahi
v;qSA nqmZ;A
m;adAya barh;aZA
sv;ena r;asena
hur;uk yat;e
yajY;eSu mAnavI
r;akSAMsi devay;uH
p;OMsyam zukr;Am
zrit;aH ;aDi
yajY;aH n;a
mah;aH naH
;indrAya pavate
v;qSA z;uSmeZa
pary;akSarat s;Idan
n;qBiH sut;aH
rAjasi ;aTa
y;atiH parAy;atiH
mah;Am ;indram
bqhanmate p;ari
divy;am nqc;akSasam
r;ajaH stotr;e
t;arat s;a
soma vipazc;itam
van;uSaH yaTA
sah;asram enAH
st;up camUS;at
vIravaH aB;i
div;aH z;izum
s;AnO ;aDi
dAn;Aya z;Uram
aheSata ;induH
s;acA kav;eH
vay;am ca
dadmahe t;arat
aB;i gavy;A
saMn;asanta jy;otiH
;adriBiH aB;i
minAti saMg;iram
pqTivy;AH ;aDi
mqSw;AH ;amartyAH
t;am vAvazAn;am
siMh;am nasanta
kqZv;antaH ;arvate
kS;ipaH ;adrayaH
v;i s;a
punAn;aH kal;azeSu
s;omaH akSAr
janap;Anam ;akSitam
duHS;ahAsaH van;uSA
tasTima ;indrAya
eti niSkqt;am
AnazuH ut;a
y;at Im
;indrAya p;avamAnaH
k;Amyam prasnAp;ayanti
jy;otIMSi soma
n;araH sah;asraDAram
ganDarv;am divy;am
hqd;i ant;ar
akSarat m;aDumAn
rakSoh;A v;Aram
aDvar;e pr;a
duhAn;aH pratn;am
gAhate aB;i
vizv;ataH s;ara
DIt;iBiH t;am
s;ADAraZam rajast;uram
;indavaH ;asiSyadanta
aB;i v;astrA
;iSam v;arDa
kr;atvA d;akSasya
kratuv;ittamaH m;adaH
;A pr;a
zriy;e jAt;aH
nqc;akSasam tvA
mA pr;a
Im Ayan
y;e sapt;a
D;arman qt;asya
;aMhaH yuyoDi
iS;aH ;arAtayaH
et;e pUt;AH
praB;uH g;AtrAZi
te azyAma
r;ajasi praj;AvatIH
h;arayaH mqjanti
zat;adAtu ;azvyam
;ava cakradat
v;qSA m;adaH
qt;asya n;ABiH
v;asu m;artAya
pUrv;IH h;i
k;anikradat p;ari
n;ABiH am;qtam
varivov;it p;ari
dev;An ;A
n;amoBiH ;A
j;avIyAn arvAc;InEH
naH ;indraH
prav;atA asaran
aB;i avarData
n;a mitr;am
im;e sapt;a
pavasva rIt;im
tvA hast;inaH
vAvqDAn;Aya t;Urvaye
zr;avaH en;A
pit;uH mAt;uH
sunvAn;asya ;anDasaH
v;iDarmaZi dev;eByaH
y;e g;AvaH
n;a vAjas;qt
ukTy:am divy;am
yAsi aDvar;am
it;aH ca
cam;USu s;omaH
upabd;iH ;iyarti
ruruhuH s;Anavi
s;omAH sah;asrapAjasaH
v;arcaH suv;Iryam
g;AvaH Gqt;am
y;at ;akSAr
p;anipnatam hiraZy;ayam
s;oma ;indrAya
v;iprAsaH mat;iBiH
n;a sasqjAn;AsaH
tir;aH m;artasya
sadaH t;ava
kav;ayaH ap;asaH
arSa bqh;at
k;qtvyaH t;am
dev;aH kav;inA
azizrayuH dev;am
mah;An ;adabDaH
qt;asya v;iH
;adevam k;am
hit;AH samary;e
h;ariH arSati
zr;avase naH
;apa ac;itaH
bqh;at p;avasva
aB;i svara
v;qSA s;am
z;epaH r;omaZvantO
rocan;A kav;iH
ay;A citt;aH
ant;arikSe v;qSA
mqjanti zumB;anti
pate didIh;i
v;izvA ;asarat
Urm;iZA r;AjA
dev;An gaCantu
gaCantu v;aruZaH
azvas;AH vAjas;AH
n;Ama b;iBratIH
DIt;iBiH ;A
;induH ;indrasya
zuBr;eBiH aMz;uBiH
qZay;AH naH
DarZas;iH d;aDAnaH
yAti paT;iBiH
;ahrutAH im;AH
sut;aH ;indram
tv;ayA D;anaM-Danam
mqjanti ;induH
tvA s;am
citr;am azv;inam
kav;ayaH manIS;iZaH
;anu p;anTAm
iSir;Am uSarb;uDam
p;avamAnaH p;AYcajanyaH
qt;asya sIdasi
sukrato tan;USu
br;ahmIH anUSata
;anDasA aB;i
t;ava vrat;am
santu ket;avaH
te d;akSam
indo ;ojasA
sqja dev;aH
;A sukrato
vasImahi ;A
razm;iBiH vAjas;AtamaH
tvac;i aps;u
dev;IH atarpayat
D;ArayA soma
v;i rAjati
d;izaH ;Aha
Den;avaH ap;Am
qtuT;A v;asAnaH
gir;A jy;otiH
j;AyamAnam s;am
sunv;antam iCati
p;avamAnaH surAt;ayaH
jagamyAt ;aDi
BiS;ak upalaprakS;iZI
;upa priy;am
pavate m;adAya
s;arasi pr;a
qt;AvA ap;aH
;indum ;indrAya
pEdv;aH n;a
k;am sqjAn;am
p;iba indra
soma sisrate
v;ayaH DAH
tanv:am arep;asam
niSkqt;am ;ati
;apa anakS;AsaH
soma v;qSZyam
vahne adButa
Adity;eBiH aKyata
;arvA tigm;e
;A aprAH
g;AH iSaZy;an
t;am g;ATayA
;aSAXaH sAhv;An
maDuzc;utam h;arim
pr;a arUrucat
g;AvaH p;ayoBiH
s;omasya p;avamAnasya
eti r;eBan
naH pinva
asi priy;aH
d;aDAnaH Atm;ani
h;i d;izaH
;ApaH n;a
r;aZanti DIt;ayaH
asiSyadat kal;azAn
y;aH te
y;aH ;ixAnAm
BakS;am Azata
priy;aH samudr;am
punAn;aH devAvy:aH
divy;am m;aDu
ap;Am Urm;im
dev;I ;avasaH
Az;avaH v;izvAni
marjayanti s;anABayaH
Av;ivAsan parAv;ataH
s;a m;aDvaH
indo pavamAna
v;iprAZAm mahiS;aH
s;ome mahIy;ate
v;qSA D;armAZi
zur;uDaH s;a
pinvAn;AH sv;asare
Urm;ayaH aBikS;aranti
s;a Avar
mqjy;amAnaH manIS;iBiH
;induH pavate
asarat s;a
k;anikradat DIB;iH
Druv;asya sat;aH
tiSWa jan;aya
Az;asaH pun;Ati
DIt;ayaH ;anu
et;e s;omAsaH
rUp;am ap;Am
b;aBro duduhr;e
t;atra m;Am
samudr;asya ;aDi
sadaH ;aDukSata
avrat;An qt;asya
v;izvA ca
;induH vAj;I
b;iBratam saD;asTeSu
s;omaH vAvqDe
pAvamAn;IH aDy;eti
Danvantu g;omate
triv;arUTam aps;u
Gn;an ;apa
k;armAZi c;akriH
m;Am devajan;AH
mAy;ayA tv;acam
huve p;avamAnaH
ca d;akSiZAvate
pavamAna pIt;aye
g;oBiH vAsayiSy;ase
duhate d;aza
;iyarti s;omaH
B;agAya b;iBarti
s;inDuByaH aBavat
p;ayaH y;at
;aDi tozate
dr;aviZAni arSasi
vacov;idaH p;ari
;anDasA goS;Am
mAt;arA iva
kqZoti vagvan;um
devAv;IH aGazaMsah;A
arep;asam ;avye
purusp;qham ;A
acikradaH s;omAH
sarp;iH m;aDu
vAG;adBiH ;amartyaH
iyarti y;am
g;AH acikradat
kS;ipaH hinv;anti
v;qTA pav;itre
pr;a v;ahniH
pr;a s;omasya
pItv;A m;adAnAm
nqmZ;A v;asAnaH
camv:oH ;A
;indrAya matsar;am
girvaZaH h;are
mitr;asya v;aruZasya
camv:oH sut;aH
;A kal;azAH
mah;An asi
janayata svaD;ABiH
t;ava t;AH
j;anam p;avamAnAH
dyum;attamaH amqtatv;Aya
rAjati prIZ;an
k;anikradat eS;a
qt;asya sIdata
pavase pav;itre
s;omam pav;itre
indo ev;a
zrav;Ayyasya tIrT;e
naH yAhi
GqZ;A t;apantam
iva tm;an
sumn;am p;avamAnam
;indum p;ari
parj;anyaH pit;A
suv;Iryam eS;a
s;Anavi ;avyaH
d;akSaH giriSW;AH
aYj;anti enam
arSanti ;indavaH
vIt;aye nqmZ;A
mand;I DAvati
indo aB;i
devay;uH p;avasva
sarji ;UDani
jAt;e arocayat
;apatyam ;A
p;Atave sut;aH
avy;ayam y;at
arSati v;Acam
parZav;IH iva
div;aH div;aH
svAd;uH pavAte
v;aneSu vizvav;it
Dart;Aram ;A
v;aneSu ;A
;AnItaH puruv;AraH
sma puruhUt;aH
vicakSaZ;aH r;AjA
mah;IH ap;aH
;ati s;etum
drava p;ari
naH maG;onaH
v;Acam invasi
viza d;avidyutatyA
tripqSW;aH anaviSwa
yAhi sar;aTam
saMv;araZAni agman
an;ayA ruc;A
;it s;inDoH
s;at B;UmI
;iti dev;AsaH
v;asUni yAhi
y;at kS;ayaTaH
;iyakSate aB;i
indo sup;aTA
duhuH v;izvA
;upa yAta
div;aH ;A
up;asTe kav;iH
aB;iSwutaH pav;itram
;aTa dev;AnAm
zuBr;eBiH zuBr;azastamaH
praj;Avat r;etaH
vqSw;ayaH D;ArAH
hinvAn;aH m;AnuSIH
n;emam ;udyatam
avIvazat mat;im
g;AvaH n;a
n;a B;qgavaH
punAn;aH dev;avItaye
v;Aram vAj;I
soma suv;Iryam
uttam;Ayyam tv;am
vidv;An s;a
duhAn;aH ;UDar
pariy;an ur;u
Az;avaH zuBr;AH
trit;aH biBarti
jAn;an s;a
pad;am y;at
aDrigo dv;iH
devay;uH naH
doh;anAH anUSata
spar ;A
manIS;I s;omaH
sy;Ama sumn;asya
soma jy;ok
;induH ;indrAya
div;aH kav;iH
devay;uH s;a
;anu rAjati
v;izvAH suB;arAH
h;arase Ay;avaH
r;AjAnam y;aH
AdaD;e g;avAm
sut;aH ;avyaH
iSaZy;an p;ari
;indram s;omasya
pariD;In ;apa
sapt;a prav;ataH
uz;anA k;Avyena
asvaran p;avasva
tuYjanti praTam;AH
v;aDatre ;asvApayat
n;Ama tqt;Iyam
vicakSaZ;aH qt;asya
m;aDumattamam t;ava
;aDi mqjy;ate
m;adAya vAvqDuH
v;apuSwaraH aB;i
dev;aH qt;am
dev;avItaye ;indrasya
raG;uvartaniH v;qSA
p;avamAnaH z;qVge
sup;ezasam r;asam
mat;I puruSwut;asya
s;argAH asasqgram
suy;amaH n;a
;atyavim aB;i
pr;a cara
tiSWati punAn;aH
mah;Am ;indum
;aDa zvet;am
dev;aH dev;asya
jy;otiSA t;amaH
indo mah;Im
aDy;eti ;qSiBiH
v;asUni ;A
goj;it naH
div;aH rocan;A
y;adi g;oBiH
;UDani mUrD;an
DIj;uvaH divy;AH
braDn;asya viSw;apam
te vizv;ataH
Az;avaH zumB;amAnAH
sotAraH Danasp;qtam
jan;ayantaH ark;am
;A v;areZyam
naH mqxa
s;a cit
te z;uSmAsaH
s;a ;agre
vAsaya Az;iram
paTy:ABiH asyAn
sv;asAraH ;ApaH
aB;i gir;A
;indrAya m;aDumattamAH
ratnaD;AH y;onim
zyenaBqta pr;ayAMsi
Gqtazc;utaH vAzr;AH
;A devAv;IH
samudr;am iva
priy;am dev;Aya
vIr;am ca
r;ajasI viv;evidat
azv;inA sAk;am
praj;AH B;uvanasya
r;akSamAZaH pit;A
Am;aH aznute
div;aH pad;e
s;OBagA viGn;antaH
p;avamAnaH kira
hr;utaH r;ADaH
ut;a kSit;ayaH
s;aptayaH r;aTe
y;aH s;adane
anUSata z;izum
zuBr;am ;anDaH
m;aDvA yajY;am
;ava naH
vAjas;AtamaH pav;itre
vIt;aye ay;am
vqSaB;aH v;i
As;aBiH daD;uH
;ati sarpati
;ixA mah;I
t;anA ;induH
dev;EH yAhi
tqt;Iye pqSW;e
aB;i anUSata
jAn;an qt;am
sah;asraDAraH aYj;anti
pavase matsar;avAn
indo svAB;uvam
DAvati m;aDoH
zuBr;am hinvanti
pqTivy;AH janit;A
h;arim pav;itre
s;a cetati
mat;iBiH DIt;iBiH
kav;eH ;apatyam
c;Aru ;indrasya
;anu prad;izam
n;qbAh;uByAm codit;aH
aBizr;iyaH n;idaM-nidam
iSw;aye r;ADase
rakS;asaH aB;i
I r;aTam
y;aTA hit;am
v;qSA daDanve
ca t;atra
im;e r;odasI
suv;Iryam et;e
m;adam zat;am
;ApUrZaH aMz;uH
hit;am t;asmin
ty;AH har;itaH
iva kS;arantaH
sma jarit;qByaH
d;aDyAziraH s;UryAsaH
dev;eByaH ;indum
tok;am ca
d;aDAti r;atnam
pr;a sunvAn;asya
pqC;amAnAH s;omaH
m;aDunA p;ayaH
y;aH r;odasI
pav;itram DAva
;amartyaH prat;apan
punAn;am vAsayAmasi
viDart;ari v;iprAya
s;ana sv:ar
Ut;aye t;ava
D;ArayA parj;anyaH
punAn;aH praj;Am
suvAn;aH yAti
im;Am ras;AyyaH
v;izvasya avIvazat
D;ArayA ;indram
mUrD;an zrIZ;anti
soma p;ArTivA
n;a cakradaH
j;animAni ;adButaH
svay;am kav;iH
p;anTAm qt;asya
matsar;aH p;avamAna
vizvaj;it soma
vAvazAn;aH s;am
soma j;AgqviH
dy;Am asTAt
avy;ayam v;qSA
;A n;iH
mehanti p;eravaH
hav;ir-haviH ay;am
p;ari sn;unA
v;izvasya r;AjA
aGazaMsah;A j;aGniH
c;etasA s;omaH
p;ari s;adma
Dehi pavamAna
z;umBase t;am
m;artaH n;a
codit;aH D;ArayA
sumat;I z;arma
v;ane dev;AnAm
;AyuDA t;am
r;akSa samasya
mAt;qBiH n;a
pav;itre n;Ama
mqj;anti dev;atAtaye
g;AH kqZvAn;aH
vAj;I t;arati
krIx;uH maK;aH
t;ava im;e
aps;u mqYjata
kratuv;it soma
vizvav;it kave
cakAra ap;Am
p;invan D;ArAH
viSw;api j;invan
te div;aH
ca devy:A
p;ariSkqtaH ;indrAya
;api eti
jAt;aH jAt;e
h;astacyuteBiH ;adriBiH
p;ari pAti
aB;i dv;izavasam
sah;asraDAraH pavate
soma div;e
namasya r;AjAnam
dy;Am ut;a
z;arDaH m;Arutam
asqgran akt;aH
st;omEH k;azyapa
aruS;aH h;ariH
te pItv;A
p;avamAnaH arSasi
D;ArAH maDuzc;utaH
d;Evyam j;anam
s;Uryam rohayaH
aB;i dr;uZA
DIt;iBiH p;avamAnAH
vqSAyate kqt;Ani
p;anipnatam y;uvAnam
n;a v;AjAn
j;igAt ;upa
kal;azAn avIvazat
;avyA sam;ayA
y;asya naH
p;ari naH
;indraH v;qSA
s;uSvaye varivov;idaH
g;AvaH qtAy;antIH
zukr;aH pIy;USaH
ca naH
;A viza
asya D;armaBiH
D;IrAH vanv;an
pavasva B;agam
pqtanyat;aH kS;ara
spArh;AH Bavanti
upanAy;am eSAm
rAjan ;oSaDIByaH
s;ADanaH ay;am
m;adaH ;A
vasiSwa sukr;atuH
akt;am k;ArSman
akramuH ray;im
aBarat div;aH
asiSyadat ant;arikSe
sapt;a sv;asAraH
harSayan v;ajraH
h;ariH mah;An
hit;aH suvAn;aH
;ati zrit;I
kradaH h;ariH
hinota mahat;e
s;omAsaH kqZvate
sv;asqBiH kSeti
nijaGn;iH ;ojasA
t;eBiH naH
v;Acam Ir;ayati
net;A y;aH
asqgran sah;asram
t;at jahi
v;iDarmaZi ;akrAn
aB;i vAy;um
rAy;e arSa
tv;acam ;atyaH
m;anasA puruSwut;aH
vAj;I arSati
zumB;anti v;ipram
sqjAn;aH indo
;amartyaH ay;am
y;Atave ;A
v;anasya jaW;are
jajYAn;aH pUt;aH
sv;AdiSWaH m;aDumAn
g;onAm jajYAn;aH
mahAgay;am ;agne
zqZv;e vqSw;eH
;arSa naH
r;oruvat aMz;uH
p;arihvqtim vay;am
;avasaH t;arat
;ati devay;uH
n;a y;Amani
praroc;ayan r;odasI
;A s;Idan
gAyata mah;I
sv;ayazasam sv;asAraH
n;iSattAH t;AH
y;am p;aYca
nady:aH sapt;a
m;aDvaH v;Ajasya
saD;asTeSu mah;aH
arSa vicakSaZa
antik;e dUrak;e
Urjayanti c;atasraH
mandr;ayA yAti
vAj;inam n;araH
v;aruZAya vAy;ave
B;uvanasya r;AjA
m;adyaH r;asaH
;A sqj;ata
;iSaH dyum;at
g;Am ;azvam
v;AjAnAm p;atiH
jy;otiSmantaH t;atra
m;adam ;indo
y;aH viv;asvataH
pariD;In ;ati
avyata ;amqktena
Br;AjamAnam hiraZy;ayam
maK;am n;a
samudr;am v;aruZaH
z;ikSa vayoDaH
p;ari vyata
m;adAya haryat;aH
madacy;utam h;arim
hinvire m;anasA
t;am s;Uryasya
pavasva samudr;At
tiSWati div;aH
p;ariSkqtAsaH ;indavaH
hav;iH hav;iSSu
;atyAH hiyAn;AH
mqjy;ase soma
suvAn;AsaH bqh;addiveSu
haryat;aH ;arjune
z;uSmam Ir;ayan
juSanta ;asAvi
p;avasva vAc;aH
p;avamAnam ;akSitam
ty;e indo
r;AjA pr;a
zyen;aH g;qDrAZAm
zrit;aH kAr;am
v;izvA D;AmAni
sv;atavase aruZ;Aya
;indram azv;inA
u ty;am
zoBate v;qSA
adB;iH eS;a
;iSaH tok;asya
mAyAv;inaH mamire
saMz;izvarIH iva
aB;iSwutaH ap;aH
devAvy:am m;anuSe
pUy;amAnaH yUy;am
viSwamB;aH div;aH
et;e v;AtAH
pariSicy;amAnAH kS;ayam
n;a razm;ayaH
;A pavamAna
ut;a Atm;A
vayoDaH v;asave
te indo
giriSW;Am t;am
sah;asraDAram ;akSitam
g;aCan ;indrasya
p;ari k;ozAn
D;ArAH yanti
;azvam r;aTe
sacate sumeD;AH
;amqtyavaH ;adAByAsaH
y;onim aruZ;aH
div;aH viSwamB;aH
;avye mqj;anti
vIr;aH dakSas;ADanaH
s;omasya te
san;itram div;aH
p;ibanti asya
Ay;avaH h;arim
reBanti kav;ayaH
Ut;aye ;A
pratn;ena m;anmanA
Aj;O Diy;A
bAkur;am d;qtim
;IxyaH t;AByAm
;astam g;AvaH
n;a D;AtA
dev;atAtaye y;atra
razm;iBiH s;a
Den;avaH barhiS;adaH
m;aDumattamam n;araH
apsar;asaH manIS;iZam
;aDa hinvAn;aH
Den;avaH vAvazAn;AH
;qSiH p;avamAnaH
;adevam dvay;um
s;am vats;aH
Ay;uH pavate
mimate n;a
sah;asravarcasam ;induH
p;ariSkqtam ;avye
sut;aH h;ariH
;anu svaD;AH
dakSas;ADanaH v;i
v;AjAya zr;avase
v;ahniH soma
y;e arvAv;ati
D;ArABiH ;ojasA
camv:oH samajy;ase
kavIn;Am ;qSiH
jAr;am iva
ca aBizrIZ;an
p;avasva indo
arSasi v;i
p;ariSkqtaH ay;am
v;AjasAtaye aB;i
Dar;uZaH pqTivy;AH
maKasyate v;izvasya
giriSW;AH ;asreDan
sqjAn;aH Az;iram
t;e asya
B;UmanaH div;aH
kSipr;aDanvA sam;atsu
s;adaH vid;uH
akrata sat;aH
vqSaBa t;A
eS;a Diy;A
s;aKAyaH m;aDvaH
;aditeH iSir;am
aruZ;Aya divisp;qze
pr;a v;Acam
somaD;Anam kr;andan
;aDi r;etasi
s;a mUrDn;aH
vAvqDuH tv;Am
aB;i candr;A
s;am gr;AvaBiH
d;ohate m;adeSu
p;avasva jan;ayan
mand;ayan ;indrAya
m;artAya B;USan
;it ;arTam
Ay;avaH samIcIn;AsaH
hinvir;e dev;atAtaye
zr;avaH bqh;at
duhat;e p;ayaH
divy;Ani p;ArTivA
kS;etram aB;i
s;inDuBiH kal;aze
Az;avaH ;asqkSata
mAt;araH veD;Am
y;adi tuYj;anti
s;Uryam par;aH
v;izvAni dr;aviZAni
aB;i Den;avaH
suv;Iram ;iSuH
p;avamAna m;ahi
param;At ant;ar
;qSayaH sapt;a
ulok;am pr;a
pr;a gAyata
pibdan;A p;aruSA
m;atsi soma
g;Am ur;u
kqZvate paT;aH
s;omaH gIrB;iH
ray;im asm;aByam
nirZijAn;aH p;ari
yemAn;aH k;oze
zrIZanti v;asuBiH
n;u sv;atavase
;ahnAm h;ariH
s;am sqja
tv;am samudr;iyAH
m;A u
n;a g;qDrAH
kav;iH veDasy;A
st;avE ;abiByuSA
pit;A mahiS;asya
samudr;e ;AhitaH
qt;asya y;onA
s;Idan h;otA
D;UrvaZe r;akSa
svay;am stotr;e
;ati yanti
Danva z;ucim
r;AjA dev;aH
v;i nIyase
DqSZ;uH cayate
devav;ItamaH ;A
n;qBiH yat;aH
;A zyen;aH
rAraZa saKy;e
aYjat;e kr;atvA
zukr;aH arSa
aGazaMsah;A pr;a
gAt;um kqZu
dev;An havate
s;oma ;qSiBiH
p;avamAna aB;i
deva Danva
pavate c;Aru
rut;am BiS;ak
praTam;aH manIS;I
kr;andan y;onim
hurazc;itaH prAt;ar
v;Ajam naH
y;at pUt;aH
vip;A an;ayA
makS;u Diy;AvasuH
z;azvate v;asu
;aDi suvAn;aH
s;amanA jigAti
g;oBiH vasAy;ate
cetati hinvAn;aH
baBr;avaH ;indram
aB;i kal;azAn
yanti asazc;ataH
;ojasA eS;a
mahiS;am t;am
;A s;Uryasya
v;icarSaZiH zumB;anti
k;am nqc;akSAH
sADaya paT;aH
zqZuh;i br;avImi
g;AvaH anUSata
yAti ruj;a
asy;E ;ajItim
naH pr;a
j;aneSu paYc;asu
;indo tv;e
;atyavim ;indum
bAD;At durit;A
saMy;ataH pr;a
pariSicy;amAnaH ;A
tv;Am v;iprAsaH
d;aDyAziraH vip;A
vicakSaZa pav;itram
paviSwa c;etanaH
iva r;odasI
n;a s;aptiH
;adAByaH ;atyam
yAsi nirZ;ijam
uttam;am s;omam
s;omaH mar;utvate
v;asUni b;iBratam
z;uSmAsaH asTuH
;ojasA raTasaMg;e
sv:ar v;izvA
tir;aH r;omAZi
D;ArayA m;aDvA
sapt;a Den;avaH
D;anA vA
naH zarmay;antyA
vAc;aH p;avamAnaH
vikS;u sIdati
;A ;avizat
v;i y;aH
mAt;arA n;a
kal;azam somaD;Anam
skqZvanti veD;asaH
n;a dev;An
punAn;aH qj;um
;indrAya m;advA
rAy;aH ;A
v;qSZaH te
Ut;I s;a
ca ;apa
;indavaH tir;aH
;azvAvat soma
D;ArA p;invamAnA
D;iyaH v;qSA
pibatu vqtrah;A
n;Ama g;onAm
hit;aH v;i
tvA n;amoBiH
kav;iBiH madintama
div;aH ;udyataH
nirZ;ijam ;ati
t;ayA pavasva
aKyata s;am
dev;asya zr;avasA
;indrasya kukS;A
vAj;I D;anAya
n;AvaH suk;qtam
Diy;A z;amI
Diy;A kqt;am
jy;otiH s;ana
ap;Am r;asena
;aDi dy;Am
pUyate v;qSA
r;ajaH s;omaH
;ahataye pavasva
yaTA D;ArA
vizv;ataH s;a
s;omaH u
dyum;An m;aDoH
sukrato div;aH
adr;uhaH sp;azaH
haryat;aH s;a
D;anAni tigm;AyuDaH
s;omaH sut;asya
tiSWati ;A
;indavaH Gn;antaH
;qSiBiH mat;iBiH
iva h;ave
paTik;qt vicakSaZ;aH
z;akmaBiH asm;aByam
vqzc;a up;ariSwAt
sut;aH m;adAya
gqh;e tv;am
g;AH ;adrim
aznate p;avamAnasya
;indrAya ;induH
vAj;I s;am
p;ibAt y;asya
hinv;ate mat;I
s;inDumAtaram s;am
y;onim hiraZy;ayam
kqD;i asm;at
;indo s;aKAyam
pAh;i naH
divy;AH n;a
pr;a nimn;ena
duhe ;agre
mAt;uH up;asTe
yaz;asAm kS;EtaH
vivAsasi vay;am
asm;aByam saMy;atam
pr;a y;aH
soma p;invan
drAp;im v;asAnaH
avIvazat ;A
;indrAya v;iSZave
B;agaH s;omaH
r;ajAMsi ;aspqtaH
n;a y;aH
Urm;im sacate
kr;IxantaH ;indavaH
p;avamAna vqSaBa
sup;ezasaH tv;aSwAram
cit nid;aH
t;ava soma
s;am mAt;arA
gAhase ;ajIjanaH
pAta svast;iBiH
k;arat v;asUni
g;oH ;aDi
vqtr;AZAm asi
cetati y;aTA
tv;am suv;IraH
matsar;aH pqts;u
pqtany;ati t;am
zr;avaH tv;Am
;ava cakSata
vip;A v;i
nqc;akSAH ;anu
vAjas;AH ;qSiH
vid;Asi naH
r;aMhamAZaH p;uraMDyA
s;a vIr;aH
srava ut;a
kira v;asu
asaran s;am
vAzr;aH avIvazat
div;aH t;ena
pit;uH j;Am
hare ;indrAya
am;qtam kqDi
hinvAn;aH het;qBiH
yajY;asya ket;uH
ruj;at dqX;A
tira dUr;e
;ava caSwe
punIt;a mA
D;ArayA ;indrAya
sv:ar y;at
sv:ar hit;am
y;Atave sah;asram
zat;AmaGaH vim;AnaH
D;arman am;qtasya
m;aDunaH BakS;am
sAt;im ;aCa
aB;i y;onim
uttam;am ;anu
soma y;oDyA
t;antum tanvAn;aH
;iSaH ;aDi
aps;u y;ajate
DIt;ayaH D;anutrIH
pav;itram v;itatam
y;at ukTy:am
srava y;atra
indo Ut;aye
jah;i r;akSAMsi
hinvanti veD;asaH
j;anAya j;uSwaH
v;i ;avyam
saMy;atam pipy;uSIm
vagvan;um eS;a
z;umBate eS;a
uz;ijaH praTam;AH
D;Irasya DIt;ayaH
agman mand;I
sar;aTam punAn;aH
mat;im et;e
am;qtAya zr;avAMsi
s;am Azata
varAh;aH aB;i
s;omaH pav;itram
s;omaH gOr;I
gr;AvaBiH nasate
B;arate z;UraH
pad;am ;ekasya
k;im can;a
Danva ;indrAya
s;omaH dev;eSu
v;Aram arSasi
v;iSvak durit;Ani
;indrAya sUr;iH
y;e araT;AH
braDn;aH cit
patyate s;am
iva tm;anA
UrDv;aH aDvar;e
pr;a gAhate
DAvati sapt;a
z;ikSan ADUnvat;e
;induH v;i
anUSata ;iyakSanti
jujuS;uH hav;ir-haviH
mahitvan;A pur;ojitI
tvA bapsati
p;avamAna ruc;A-rucA
y;aTA mitr;Aya
;iSaH p;avamAnasya
Dvasr;ayoH puruS;antyoH
gqBZata vAj;inaH
tv;iSIH aDita
pracakrAZ;am mah;IH
eSAm s;a
y;at soma
p;avamAnaH nqc;akSAH
ur;ugavyUtiH ;aBayAni
y;at Aduh;uH
suv;Iryam urv;Im
p;avamAnaH avy;ayam
m;ahyam ca
yuYjanti y;Atave
saMy;ataH yanti
maG;avA Bava
vAy;oH aB;i
pit;A matIn;Am
priy;am h;arim
zuSm;I ;adAByaH
;indum m;adAya
sut;am s;omaH
mahat;e s;OBagAya
kqD;i suSWAn;e
sahasr;iZIH ;iSaH
iva yAti
parIZas;am kqZute
DAvati r;aMhamAZA
DAvata ray;im
sut;asya veD;asaH
azy;Ama v;AjaganDyam
s;a varDit;A
vayoj;uvaH hinvAn;AsaH
n;a r;aTyam
s;omam manIS;AH
pUy;amAnaH ;asi
s;a raMhate
pipy;uSIm ;iSam
asya z;akmaBiH
iva yuvat;iBiH
sasr;utaH Den;UH
ca s;OBagA
y;aTA t;ava
kal;azeSu sIdati
;agre Ayat;I
pr;AcaH y;e
am;qtam v;i
p;avante v;AjasAtaye
vAy;uH n;a
;uparAsaH ;indavaH
acikradat ;indo
dqz;e y;aH
pit;araH m;ama
agr;uvaH D;amanti
;A im;Am
mad;intamaH Atm;A
z;amI sacate
;A Bara
naH madAnAm
v;anAni mahiS;AH
anum;AdyaH ;indo
uttam;aH p;ari
sam;ayA v;i
ca p;avasva
D;armaBiH ;A
y;am vid;e
yatate p;aYca
;indrasya n;Ama
;ajasram y;asmin
ruj;a dqX;A
samary;e pavamAna
gavy;ayI tv;ak
yahv;IH t;at
k;AmAH t;atra
y;ayoH triMz;atam
qgm;iyam tv;Am
j;uSwaH mitr;Aya
t;antuH v;itataH
suBv:am sup;ezasam
v;qSZe p;ari
v;aruZe ca
y;at asya
vavqS;e ;indum
aB;i zukr;Am
m;adam suvAn;aH
purusp;qham samIcIn;e
s;am yanti
gir;A ;azvaH
j;anAnAm qB;uH
t;ABiH pav;itram
g;AvaH suhut;AdaH
zukr;Am vayanti
kavIn;Am tqt;Iyam
dUXy:A ruj;a
;iSam p;ari
y;ayA g;AvaH
Iyate vAj;I
maDyam;Asu mAt;qSu
naH D;iyaH
aB;i vAj;I
pr;a k;oze
kr;atvA zukr;eBiH
gAtuv;ittamaH ;qSiH
s;omAH d;evAsaH
;anDasA suvAn;aH
v;qSA ;aTa
gAtuv;ittamaH Bava
p;avamAnaH ;ati
pavamAna Danvasi
;iSaH v;izvAH
mUrDn;aH ;asuraH
pav;itre camv:oH
vqj;ane soma
praB;oH te
aYjate s;am
gIrB;iH p;ariSkqtaH
Bara p;avasva
rAjan DAtr;A
n;qBiH vizvav;it
m;aDvaH ;A
pinva vidy;ut
aB;i vajr;iZam
v;asUnAm y;aH
agmata marj;ayantIH
sv;ani reB;aH
st;avAnaH ;anu
s;u jIv;ase
h;anti r;akSaH
vqSaB;aH taviSy;ayA
v;iprAH pr;a
bqh;at zukr;am
divy;aH pIy;USaH
trit;asya pASy:oH
bqhat;aH s;am
parj;anyavqdDam mahiS;am
rUp;A pratic;akSAZaH
mah;IH ;anu
s;omaH r;aZyaH
indo ;ojiSWaH
h;iraZyavat ;upa
DAH yUy;am
ut;a tv;Am
Bara t;arat
v;izvABiH mat;iBiH
jaVGanaH n;u
asya j;Ayate
m;Ahinam ;atyaH
soma dyum;An
dyutAn;aH kal;azAn
z;akmanA p;ayaH
y;at asmin
sapt;ajAmayaH pad;am
z;UreByaH cit
uttam;am ;induH
te punAn;Aya
;aDi v;iprAsaH
s;UryeZa hAsate
niSkqt;am dyutAn;aH
z;oZaH aBik;anikradat
v;ane p;avamAnasya
ukS;amAZam avy;aye
madir;AsaH Az;avaH
j;anam s;inDoH
y;atra Apt;AH
m;anasaH p;atiH
Ahan;asaH v;ihAyasaH
k;arAmahe ;A
m;ajjanti ;avicetasaH
syAma B;uvaneSu
;aDi punAn;aH
matIn;Am pavate
vay;am ;indrapItam
sukSitIn;Am y;asya
p;avamAnaH praj;ApatiH
arSati g;aCan
pavate sahasraj;it
r;Asva indo
nqc;akSAH asi
tv;am ;indrAya
zukr;AsaH arc;ayaH
v;asUni saMj;ayan
matsar;am pr;a
kS;etram ur;u
n;avam d;aDAta
aps;u madAmaH
zr;avAMsi DAraya
;azvam azvav;it
hant;A ;apa
aB;i majm;anA
aps;u tvA
DIj;avanaH asi
nqc;akSasaH div;aH
pav;itre asmay;uH
aB;i v;AZIH
;indram m;adaH
mah;e samaryar;Ajye
pIt;aye hare
h;ariH eS;a
d;uvaH iS;e
pravaZ;e nimn;e
n;a B;aramAZaH
div;aH pqSW;e
pr;a c;etasA
dy;avi pav;itre
pr;a minAti
arSa s;a
draps;aH p;ari
pAvak;ayA pariprasy;andate
tr;iH asmE
vIr;uDAm p;atiH
v;aneSu sIdati
;apa Damanti
;iyarti v;Acam
vIt;irADasam p;avamAnaH
stotr;e vayask;qtaH
dy;Am ;indrasya
jAm;iBiH yat;aH
s;a v;ahniH
n;ihitaH yam;A
s;omam s;a
sah;asraBarZasam ut;a
D;iyaH pr;a
s;omaH ;arAvZaH
et;am ty;am
j;AgqviH p;avasva
y;atra t;qptiH
mitr;Av;aruZA pUy;amAnaH
vAcamIVKay;aH s;omaH
vAZ;am s;a
;adriSutaH barh;iSi
maMhay;uH pav;itram
am;qtAsaH ;Asate
v;iprAH amAdiSuH
r;aZyaH m;adAya
t;at uzanti
;A d;ivam
asury:am v;arZam
adB;iH mqjAn;aH
dev;avItaye p;avante
dy;Am ca
asm;An Ad;idezati
dAz;uSe ;A
kav;iH niv;acanAni
;indrasya aB;i
sumeD;AH Darm;A
sv;asare n;a
;anapacyutA sam;atsu
p;avamAnaH vqSaZyati
aBr;EH s;omasya
k;Amyam vats;am
gAtuv;ittamaH mitr;AH
apt;uraH kqZv;antaH
havate div;aH
s;omam ;adriBiH
Badr;An kqZv;an
;anu v;iprAH
jy;AyaH mahitv;am
sIdasi p;avasva
ayAsIt ;induH
;A zqZve
santu ;indavaH
;A n;qBiH
n;i akramIt
p;avamAnaH saMtan;im
ur;O pavasva
dev;am dev;Aya
iSir;am ur;u
;akSitam v;arSiSWe
tir;aH r;ajAMsi
s;am jitam
zat;aDAraH ;adButaH
ap;aH ur;um
m;Am ;ava
m;qDaH ca
s;arasvatI ;ixA
DIB;iH apt;uram
sut;asya peyAH
Bavatu r;akSasA
jy;otiH jajYAn;am
kav;iH aB;iSwutaH
aprat;i jaG;Ana
div;aH lok;AH
pr;a maDyam;Asu
rUp;EH ajyate
Diy;aH asy;AH
zyen;aH n;a
eti r;oruvat
kqDi p;avItAraH
bqh;at gaBIr;am
sah;asram ;qkvA
d;Atave maG;am
j;aratIBiH ;oSaDIBiH
zuBr;aH n;a
s;uSutaH p;ari
s;a Band;anAH
h;i ;avasA
s;am akSaraH
s;aKiByaH ;A
soma suvAn;aH
v;i aKyat
vAsayAmasi t;am
pr;azastaye k;am
s;inDuBiH v;qSA
sIdasi sut;aH
suvAn;aH arSa
ady;a v;asuttaye
g;AH gavy;an
d;ivodAsAya z;ambaram
devI giriSW;AH
s;omam punItana
stot;qByaH vIr;avat
Datt;a ray;im
nUn;am ca
soma gAtuv;it
mahiS;asya parZ;inaH
pratnav;at n;avyase
pr;a asiSyadat
p;ari divy;Ani
p;ari priy;aH
soma s;UraH
sah;asraZITaH padav;IH
s;am aVgDi
;apa ;amIvAm
n;a putr;aH
div;i ;adriBiH
qt;asya DIt;iBiH
v;anyam asadat
div;aH jan;ayan
;indo j;ayema
;asqkSata r;aTyAsaH
urAZ;aH k;arat
br;ahmaZe pUy;amAnaH
n;a saMv;araZAni
mad;intamam pr;a
n;i asm;e
mA j;AtavedaH
ty;e avIvazan
aB;i g;onAm
indo jaW;aram
t;ava draps;AH
vqSaB;asya ;aDi
praj;AvatIH ;iSaH
sIdata punAn;aH
;apyaH taviSyate
r;AjA samudr;am
svADy:aH ;anu
s;aptim mqjanti
rAjati ;adriBiH
r;asaH d;akSaH
s;omam s;Uryasya
t;avasvAn sv:arcakSAH
p;avamAnaH qtAy;uBiH
suvAn;aH ;induH
p;Urve k;armAZi
avy;ayam s;a
veD;asaH gqZ;antaH
Irte p;ayaH
Aj;O et;e
k;AvyeSu r;antA
Iyate n;arA
g;iraH punAn;aH
r;AjA vid;at
y;onim s;omaH
;asya te
rohasi vIray;uH
;upa gir;A
v;izvA rUp;AZi
gOr;I ;aDi
;A yamat
sudakSa camv:oH
;asuraH veda
;A vivAsati
br;ahmaZaH manIS;Am
indo indray;uH
g;AvaH ih;a
asazc;ataH zat;aDArAH
D;Ama svarv;ide
pate s;a
durmat;IH Ad;edizAnaH
zr;avaH s;omaH
dev;eByaH m;aDu
pav;itram v;i
pavamAna aB;i
v;asu g;avyAni
v;Ajam ;A
praBUvaso v;arDa
duSw;aram s;omam
v;asAnaH mahiS;aH
p;avamAnaH arocayat
dev;eByaH p;ari
daDuH s;a
;akSarat Av;ivAsan
s;ammizlaH aruS;aH
p;avamAna vid;AH
;anDasA tv;am
Bara ay;A
h;ariH ;ati
p;avamAnaH sut;aH
naH brahmasav;EH
aznoti am;utaH
h;otAraH n;a
mat;ayaH yanti
tIvr;am duh;anti
pqTiv;I ca
naH sadaH
ev;a pavasva
puSyasi p;ari
dev;avItaye v;qSA
j;anaH n;a
y;am ;atyam
yAti ;aZvyA
m;adAya dev;avItaye
h;arim hinvanti
asvaran v;ane
;indram gaCatu
ant;ar Iyate
pUrv;aTA ;indum
Badr;A v;astrA
j;anAya girvaZaH
p;ari tvac;i
D;armaBiH tv;Am
asm;e Dehi
v;ane ;A
ay;Asam h;arim
v;Are arSati
te m;adAsaH
pav;itre avyata
pavate svard;qzaH
rajast;uram vanakrakS;am
v;asAnam h;arim
maDuzc;utam aB;i
mat;iBiH c;anohitaH
roc;ayan r;ucaH
Den;avaH s;a
durit;A ;ati
g;omatIH ;iSaH
matsar;intamaH y;aTA
avasy;avaH tv;Am
svarv;idaH s;a
kS;ayAya s;a
hiraZyay;uH ;induH
pram;udaH ;Asate
arSati suSwut;im
kS;ipaH n;qBiH
n;a y;uDyan
sut;asya pr;a
s;aptiH aB;i
vAj;I iva
gAhate hav;iH
n;i z;atroH
aps;u duduhAn;aH
t;AByAm v;izvasya
yanti ;avyam
d;aDAti g;arBam
;arSati sv:ar
aruS;am div;aH
j;Iyate h;anti
vAvazAn;am mat;ayaH
svast;i ;indram
abruvan vAc;aH
div;e-dive ;indo
h;otA Badr;A
dev;An ;iyakSate
te drAp;im
soma sar;aTam
m;Am punIhi
v;izvA dAz;uSe
mat;IH janayata
iva kr;atumAn
aB;i navante
jeSi zr;avaH
hiraZy;ayIH p;avamAnena
sicyate ukT;EH
;aditeH qt;am
pavate svaDvar;aH
n;a nikt;EH
dUZ;AzaH vanuSyat;A
kal;aze g;AvaH
aMz;uH asmE
arSasi aB;i
;AyuDAni p;avasva
soma y;aH
s;omaH iSyate
aruZ;am mayoB;uvam
hiraZyav;it retoD;AH
up;asTe ;aDi
p;avamAna n;i
t;ava st;avaH
saMc;qtam vic;qtam
svarv;idaH aB;i
naH gAt;um
samudr;am tur;Iyam
te ruruhuH
nqmZ;A ca
gAyata mah;e
v;izvAni vqtr;A
;arvAn iva
jah;i v;izvAH
ca vizanti
het;qBiH ;asqgram
retoD;AH indo
g;ave z;am
yat;e ;Ize
hiyAn;AH n;a
sukr;atuH mah;Antam
;avyaH v;Are
suv;Iryam ;asqgran
z;azvat jigeTa
v;ihAyasaH t;eBiH
v;qSaBiH yat;am
;indavaH p;avamAnaH
iva vAj;inam
vIt;A Danva
B;qgavaH ;A
gaman tisr;aH
;A vidy;utA
r;eBan n;u
v;aneSu sAkam;ukSaH
arSanti v;iSZave
v;izvAni aB;i
B;UmanaH Diy;A
y;at ajy;ase
qt;asya s;Idati
mqj;anti sapt;a
mah;aH asm;aByam
v;aruZaH n;a
hitv;I vavr;im
n;amaH al;Ayyasya
;indavaH asm;aByam
qt;AvA ;indrAya
iva ur;avaH
bqh;at p;avamAnasya
sv:ar vAj;I
n;araH DIB;iH
ap;Am Urm;O
s;UryaH dqz;e
s;am Den;uBiH
z;arma sapr;aTaH
;adabDAH pad;e
;anu v;iprAsaH
Bavanti r;antayaH
t;am ukS;amAZam
dev;An ajIjanat
k;ozam maDyam;am
uz;anA iva
y;an s;am
y;atra jy;otiSmantaH
asm;aByam gAtuv;ittamaH
iS;e pavasva
t;amAMsi soma
dev;eByaH uttam;am
ca praj;AyE
dev;eByaH anukAmak;qt
saKy;e vay;am
barh;iSi p;avamAna
y;ajyave v;aruZAya
vIr;avat m;imAti
soma p;ari
v;izvAH m;qDaH
Danvasi ;iSam
bqh;addiveSu h;arayaH
duduhr;e ;akSitam
asazc;ataH aB;i
triD;Atu asya
s;oma gotr;am
nqc;akSasaH qt;ena
sUkt;Aya paT;aH
ap;Am y;at
;indo vizv;Ayum
v;aMsu sIdati
p;avamAnAsaH Azata
DAraya ray;im
pavIt;Aram Az;avaH
makS;UtameBiH ;ahaBiH
sukr;atuH ruv;ati
;indavaH ay;A
v;asUnAm m;artasya
Bara ray;im
j;anmane qt;ena
pinvase ;indrAya
arSa sahasr;iZam
punAn;asya praB;UvasoH
mqjy;amAnaH g;aBastyoH
jihate bqh;at
Asu gqBZate
dev;avItO s;am
D;IraH pit;uH
vqSaB;am d;aza
nqmZ;Ani b;iBratam
rocan;A r;ohan
ih;a stut;aH
n;i tozase
rayiS;Aw ;amartyaH
r;asaH aBikr;andan
r;AjAnam man;anAH
naH tArIt
nikt;aH vAj;I
div;e-dive p;ari
akSAr sah;asraretAH
jamadagniv;at naH
;azvAn raT;inaH
ven;AnAm akqpanta
vAj;inam ay;A
viza kal;azam
pur;u sug;A
k;anikradat ;iyarti
;asi h;i
aMz;uBiH dev;eByaH
s;Uryam ;aTa
t;am ;A
m;adAya dev;eByaH
vEvasvat;aH y;atra
tanyat;uH tv;am
v;Ajam n;a
dev;aH Iyate
n;a maMhay;uH
iva n;a
h;arSate asya
jajYAn;am ukTy:am
marmqjy;ante div;aH
pr;a aDvar;e
m;adam p;avasva
priy;am gir;A
aB;i p;UrvAH
p;atiH vacasyate
pavasva ;indo
mah;A k;armAZi
m;adaH jah;i
y;at k;AvyA
;adriBiH y;onO
v;asAnaH z;arma
ayAsuH AVgUSy:am
mat;iBiH pqC;amAnAH
pot;A s;a
v;Acam iSyasi
dur;oSam aB;i
stotr;e suv;Iryam
s;inDavaH Gn;antaH
ap;Am ganDarv;am
anum;AdyaH z;uciH
pqTivy;AH Dar;uZaH
s;omAsaH d;aDyAziraH
saKAyaH m;adAya
dev;An m;atsi
v;qSA deva
ukS;A biBarti
pqTiv;Im ca
arSasi mqjAn;aH
s;omaH hqd;e
bqhat;A r;aveZa
manIS;I d;aza
y;aTA Aj;O
v;Are z;izuH
y;aH ;indoH
tv;am kav;iH
p;avamAna r;asaH
v;asumat h;iraZyavat
t;ava kr;atvA
g;opatim v;izvaH
vats;am jAt;am
ut;a zr;avaH
up;asTe vqSaB;aH
Aviz;an manIS;iBiH
tat;am t;antum
urubj;am aB;i
r;AjA v;qSA
hit;aH ;avye
indo v;i
adr;uhaH spArh;AH
;ati akSaran
vqSAy;ate asy;a
pratn;aH aB;i
dakSas;ADanaH dev;eByaH
m;adAya j;ohuvat
niSkqt;am y;an
pun;anti s;omam
v;Ajam div;e-dive
parZ;eBiH zakun;AnAm
v;Aram ;avyam
yujAn;aH siMh;aH
s;arvam s;a
n;Ama aB;i
Urm;im s;acamAnaH
div;aH r;etasA
;arvataH junIm;asi
yemAn;aH haryat;aH
viz;Am v;ahniH
aB;i vraj;am
v;i aYjate
suzr;iyam ;indo
n;a taranti
k;Avyam ev;a
;A uB;e
vAvazAn;AH s;omam
pr;a sumeD;AH
n;a vAjay;uH
vizv;adevaH s;omaH
asvaran qt;asya
v;arSiSWe ;aDi
ay;A ruc;A
dv;iH y;am
s;u indo
gAh;At div;aH
vAj;I akSAr
dyukS;atamaH m;adaH
parSi vidv;An
tv;am soma
rada ;indo
asy;a pItv;A
saKitv;am ;A
soma rohasi
v;qSZe r;oruvat
vIt;aye g;uhA
vIt;aye y;aTA
sah;asrayAmA paTik;qt
ay;am div;aH
bqh;at eS;a
pr;a u
v;AjasAtaye v;iprasya
m;anuSe pinvati
mAt;qSu pram;e
svAyuD;aH sot;qBiH
nasanta m;aDvaH
indo viza
vizv;acarSaZiH aB;i
;arAvZaH sut;AH
priy;am m;aDu
s;Idan v;aneSu
p;arImaZi p;ari
;arTam div;e-dive
m;atsi mitr;am
zr;iyaH z;UraH
n;aram DIj;avanam
sah;asravarcasam asm;e
suk;qttamAH m;aDunaH
;induH v;Aram
vAy;ave v;aruZAya
v;izvA rUp;A
s;eDati sriD;aH
vizv;ataH soma
n;avyaH zriy;e
arSasi ap;Am
m;AnAt ;aDi
g;omate IkSeZy:AsaH
iva t;e
putr;aH kr;atuBiH
indo zat;adAtu
BrAjase d;ivam
;avyAn p;avamAna
vqZIm;ahe y;ujyAya
upaSw;ut ay;am
sr;akve draps;asya
;aCa namasy;antIH
siYcata ;indrAya
b;iBarti c;Aru
mAt;uH ;upa
v;asUni mAMzcatv;e
n;a kr;Ixan
aB;igItaH ;induH
;iyakSanti pr;acetasaH
yAti s;amaneSu
tat;ardiTa ;utsam
D;ArayA ap;aH
soma p;ariSkqtaH
d;aza jAr;am
iva pr;a
;agne d;akSEH
t;am veD;Am
eti aB;i
m;aMhiSWaH vqtrah;antamaH
n;ityam B;uvat
jIr;adAnum st;ukA
vakt;A p;atiH
arSati sAhv;An
nirZ;ije kqta
;asarji r;aTyaH
s;Idan qt;asya
kal;azeSu ;A
vim;AnaH ;ahnAm
j;AgqviH dev;avItO
m;adam samudr;asya
y;aH rAy;Am
ratnaD;AH dayate
div;aH n;ABA
te AGqZe
z;aryAZi daDate
udapr;utaH ;indram
cam;USu ;upa
devay;uH ;avyaH
Bara pr;a
aB;i arSati
etu te
n;a BrAjase
sahasr;iZam aB;i
;A ca
vizvav;it pavate
p;atiH t;uByam
m;adaH v;areZyaH
apsuj;it pr;a
priy;am ev;a
aYjAn;aH arSasi
h;ariH tuYjAn;aH
g;ave aB;i
g;onyoGAH ;indre
ajyase v;ane
pIt;aye iS;e
sadaH ut;a
v;i Iyase
naH tr;iH
nady:aH ajinvat
k;AvyA v;izvA
somy;aH r;asaH
m;adAya dev;atAte
pate praB;uH
;apa ;amIvA
aps;u draps;aH
ah;am vazmi
t;ava Ut;iBiH
s;ara ras;A
d;akSam ut;a
v;qSaZam r;asam
;indum punItana
B;ikSamAZaH am;qtasya
napt;IBiH y;aH
;indreZa yAhi
B;uvanasya rAj;ase
dy;uBiH dv;A
v;ayaH tira
v;icarSaZiH v;izvA
v;izve dev;AH
y;onA s;adane
arvAv;ataH sut;aH
pAz;inaH santi
p;ari BUSata
anUp;e g;omAn
daDanv;An matsar;intamaH
Dar;uZaH sv:AtataH
aB;i kS;ipaH
iva Den;avaH
pavamAna DIj;avaH
nqc;akSAH aBavaH
kav;iH B;agAya
s;am asya
punAn;aH vAG;at
Dire s;a
;agan ;indram
;A j;AgqviH
saKy;e indo
mat;uTAH ;ajIjanan
v;aneSu daDiSe
cetayate ;anu
c;akSasA p;ari
;arSan k;anikradat
m;atsi z;arDaH
sapt;a mAt;araH
p;avamAnaH manIS;iBiH
suDAr;aH mah;Am
vidv;An ena
dev;An ay;AsyaH
y;aH sUr;iSu
ap;aH agriy;aH
varDit;A v;arDanaH
sy;a te
ajIjanat div;aH
d;aza D;Irasya
ca san;im
;indo D;ArABiH
j;oSam aBarat
sah;asraDAraH suraB;iH
s;omAH zukr;AsaH
punAn;aH g;arBam
div;aH n;Ake
;qkvaBiH sapt;AsyeBiH
pUy;amAnaH aps;u
r;antayaH juS;anta
Ay;avaH dev;AH
azv;inam vAvazAn;aH
zrIZAn;aH pr;a
AnazuH D;iyaH
D;ArABiH sacate
r;uzatA v;AsasA
UrZuhi v;i
y;aH anum;AdyaH
;avarData s;a
v;asAnam ;anDasA
tv;am r;AjA
manIS;AH ant;ar
v;epate mat;I
v;qSaBiH yujAn;aH
t;ava zukr;AsaH
;amIvA Bavatu
jUt;AH asqkSata
asmadry:ak ;A
dugD;ABiH akSAr
kal;azAH anUSata
;UDani ur;uDArA
kav;iH ;atyaH
aB;i ;azvAn
et;e zukr;AsaH
s;u naH
matsar;AsaH pras;upaH
can;a s;inDoH
vanuSyat;aH ;induH
yAti D;ArayA
taviSy;ayA z;qVge
ap;aH maMh;anA
div;aH iyarti
suB;arAH ;ahardivi
g;oBiH aYjAn;aH
v;aruZAya mar;udByaH
v;Ajam acikradat
aB;i ty;am
soma pr;a
g;opatim pqC;amAnAH
uB;A dev;A
suv;Iryam ;A
nirZ;ijam qgm;iZaH
;oSaDISu ;A
vAjay;uH dev;avItO
naH Ar;e
n;a k;am
s;omaH indra
aporZut;e y;ena
Bava s;anemi
anUSata yahv;IH
aB;i akramIt
mqjAn;aH ;atyaH
et;am trit;asya
p;avamAnam d;aza
dev;AsaH abruvan
pavate m;adaH
avIvqDan pav;itravantaH
vraj;am c;akriH
adB;iH g;oBiH
;indreZa naH
aDanviSuH p;avamAnAsaH
mah;at ;indrAya
n;a B;UrZayaH
mqjanti aruS;aH
duhanti ukS;aZam
IzAn;A pipyatam
s;ome r;asam
devay;uH m;aDoH
cakr;uH pavamAna
z;eva maMhase
saj;oSasaH dev;AsaH
ratnaD;AH asi
z;aMsam d;Evyam
t;ena soma
v;izve devAH
s;a naH
viGn;antaH durit;A
BUrid;AvA zazvattam;am
ay;AsyaH mat;I
ah;am tat;aH
veD;AH n;a
dev;AnAm ;asi
am;qtaH m;artyeBiH
r;asam saDam;Ade
Danva vicinv;an
D;iyam daDuH
iSyasi p;avamAna
v;ArAZi ;avyA
sIda mad;intamaH
g;avAziraH hinvAn;aH
prat;apan jy;otiSA
s;Uryam apinvaH
sma rAz;im
kam p;avamAnaH
p;uruhUta j;anAnAm
vIt;im arSa
asy;AH ;adAByaH
dev;AsaH ;indavaH
priy;am pratn;am
c;ArUZi cakre
s;enA Badr;An
y;azaH m;artAya
cam;U jan;ayan
srava camv:oH
;aDvaBiH ;avyaH
naH gahi
v;izvasya B;uvanasya
vAvazAn;aH raTirAy;atAm
s;amBqtam r;asam
GoS;ayaH y;ena
punAn;aH v;arivaH
t;am j;ahAti
;arvantaH n;a
p;avamAna jah;i
suSwut;im s;UraH
pUrvy;am y;at
dev;A nqc;akSasA
aB;Ikam p;ari
Bur;ijoH aheSata
v;itatam div;aH
mahiS;aH s;iSAsan
r;AjA meD;ABiH
;ajItim pr;a
divy;A ca
t;Ani arSati
udapr;utam sah;asraDAram
aruS;aH Bava
p;ayaH ;upa
tr;I s;a
pavasva z;am
ca m;Am
g;AH nad;ayan
s;omaH p;avamAnaH
haryat;am h;arim
g;ojIrayA r;aMhamAZaH
;aDi tv;iSIH
;aZvyA vagn;um
v;Acam rayiS;Aw
v;i v;AjAn
p;avamAnaH qt;aH
soma p;Atave
abj;it pavate
;indo sahasr;iZam
pAti ukS;A
v;ahniH qt;asya
y;eBiH nqmZ;A
s;adma aB;i
nqm;AdanaH p;avasva
jAt;am apt;uram
qt;asya zukr;aH
dev;AsaH g;oBiH
;avAtaH sah;asraretAH
DAva D;ArayA
;anDasaH sut;Aya
puruSwut;asya k;ati
y;aH s;Uryasya
jihv;A pavate
ur;um naH
;indrasya v;ajraH
atr;iZam ;apa
p;ari b;ADaH
s;uSwutAH suzilp;e
AGqZe sut;aH
pit;araH g;arBam
B;uvat v;izveSu
priy;atamam hav;iH
n;a nirZ;ijam
dev;aH dev;AnAm
arSasi apas;eDan
pr;a punAn;Aya
Den;uBiH s;Idan
sv;AdiSWaH ;aVgiroByaH
;indavaH y;oSA
s;Ure n;a
Az;uH pav;itre
tiSWase s;omaH
camUS;at zyen;aH
;aDi tvac;i
naH deva
mandr;AjanI codate
B;arat v;Ajam
agqBZata t;uBya
iva vIt;A
vqtr;AZi aprat;i
pUt;am aznAti
iyAya zr;iyam
k;AvyA p;avamAnAsaH
D;Amahe sah;asraDAre
k;Amam akSaran
nUSata p;ari
zyen;aH maTAy;at
;asurAya nirZ;ijam
;indraH ca
s;aMvqktaDqSZum ukTy:am
sam;asvaran qc;A
j;EtrAya harSayan
naH z;uSmam
hiraZy;ayam Az;uH
v;asAnAH amqtatv;am
kariSy;an vIry:am
p;avamAnaH ray;iH
s;omAsaH Az;avaH
g;omat naH
m;adAya h;anti
p;eravaH ;arAvIt
ajyate ;ut
G;qSvaye s;argaH
dev;aH zuBAyate
IVKaya n;i
uB;AByAm deva
rUp;A pariy;Ati
agreg;aH r;AjA
r;eBan ;qSimanAH
sapt;a DAt;qBiH
y;aH sukSitIn;Am
pavate viv;evidat
naH pun;antu
;azvapastyam pIt;aH
jajYAn;aH n;aBasA
DAvati zyen;aH
g;arBam Ad;aDat
yajY;asya kAr;avaH
sv;aYcaH sud;qzaH
vats;am saMz;izvarIH
p;anipnatam s;a
p;avamAna girAv;qDam
kav;inA iSit;aH
;aDi r;aTam
s;UraH ayukta
iva Bram;AH
;ut m;aDvaH
v;asUni s;am
rocaya kr;atve
;iSaH t;ayA
D;AmaBiH ;agne
asya y;ojanA
ca d;admahe
pr;a jAt;am
;A asarat
s;OBagA v;i
tr;I saD;asTA
;ut Irate
div;aH ap;Am
jajYAn;am h;arim
soma asi
pavasva g;aviSwaye
r;aZAya m;ahi
;A gqBZ;anti
asTiran ;avanti
nirZ;ije pr;a
suva ;Urjam
s;Uryasya bqhat;aH
t;AH te
kr;atumAn ;amena
asr;iDam y;A
;A gaman
mqxaya Gqt;am
pavasva ;anDasA
;it aB;i
zr;avaH v;asUni
y;adi marmqjy;ate
;arSati vraj;am
tv;Am suparZ;aH
niD;ayA niD;ApatiH
yat;e ;asAvi
j;AgqviH v;ipraH
soma v;aruZam
Band;anAH ;ut
asm;aByam vqSw;im
j;AgqviH ;aCa
ap;aH p;ari
nad;ayan eti
bqh;at daD;e
st;omam apt;uram
k;alpeSu naH
kS;ipaH ;indram
nqc;akSasA h;otArA
Urm;iH y;aH
s;omaH kal;azeSu
kqt;am v;i
vaDUy;uH pavate
r;oruvat aB;i
yujyate s;am
;indrasya s;aKA
;asi dAtr;asya
priy;am p;anipnatam
t;uByam arSanti
v;ArAn p;avamAnaH
avy;ayam n;ABA
v;izvAn ;it
savit;A v;i
;arSati m;adeSu
v;qSan stot;Aram
gop;Am qt;asya
t;eBiH ;indram
ray;im m;aDvaH
;upa mAsi
h;i tv;am
n;a n;i
sot;AraH r;asam
siYcata p;avamAna
g;AvaH mat;ayaH
pqtan;AjaH ;atyAH
sAk;am Irate
aBavaH ;aVgirastamaH
pUrv;IH viSwamB;aH
soma sAt;aye
paripray;antam vayy:am
v;qSA ;agre
vanakrakS;am udapr;utam
priy;aH sUn;uH
ut;a naH
h;ariH gqZAn;aH
n;i aDAviSwa
s;UraH ;A
z;aMsan ;A
bqhat;e dev;atAtaye
v;izveSu k;AvyeSu
vIry:am mah;at
v;AreSu asmay;uH
dev;atAtaye m;aDoH
s;omaH arSati
kqt;aH ;ati
asya t;AnvA
naH nivez;e
;indram ;aCa
B;Uri z;am
iva pravaZ;e
gavyay;uH soma
gaBIr;am t;ava
ap;aH v;asAnaH
;induH hiyAn;aH
nirZ;ije c;ArUZi
y;aH ;AviTa
yAti v;icarSaZiH
v;asUni puSyasi
;induH ;indram
gAyata suSvAZ;am
v;AryA p;avamAnAsaH
y;asya priyas;AsaH
y;ojanA v;i
;indavaH pr;ayasvantaH
p;ari ant;arikSAt
ha s;antA
citr;eBiH yAsi
r;ajiSWAm aps;u
ukTy:am pr;a
j;ayan kS;etram
pqT;um y;ayA
giriSW;AH zyen;aH
am;utaH it;aH
n;aryaH ruc;e
p;avamAnam v;icarSaZim
sarji san;aye
jan;ayan ;amartyaH
h;ariH aB;i
asya marjayAmasi
B;uvanAni yemire
qt;ajAtaH vivAvqD;e
k;ati cit
soma kratuv;ittamaH
v;i ;adriBiH
DIt;ayaH vAvazAn;AH
;anu ;ApaH
nqv;antam punAn;aH
mah;e t;ane
;arvataH aB;i
saty;aH s;amitIH
g;oBiH asarat
;ati tr;I
;Urjam pavamAna
As;adam eS;a
As;adam ;avyaH
c;etasA cetayate
p;avamAnaH ajIjanat
B;agattim Ut;aye
t;AnvA ;atra
t;am hinvanti
tv;am D;iyam
nikt;am p;ari
t;ava ;avasA
vqSAy;ate n;aBasA
mAt;arA vic;aran
;AyuH pratir;an
ant;ar sabard;uGaH
;akrAn samudr;aH
pqts;u DAH
s;OBagAya stotr;e
aYjate rUp;am
avy;aye t;e
panasy;uvaH saMv;asaneSu
k;Avyena sv:arcanAH
sIdati gavy;ayI
qtAv;qDaH s;omaH
srava sv;AdiSWaH
p;avamAnAya ;indave
apaGn;an soma
k;qtvasu y;e
sah;asram yAhi
sat;aH B;uvanasya
pUSZ;e B;agAya
ray;im soma
n;a s;Ama
ary;aH nazanta
tv;ak Bavati
jan;ayan m;aDu
vqSw;im n;a
z;am ;arvate
v;ane sv:ar
uB;ayasya j;anmanaH
agman ;qSayaH
puruzcandr;am purusp;qham
sacante trit;aH
pUy;amAnaH pr;ati
D;ArayA ;indo
t;am amqkSanta
vA z;ucInAm
vayask;qtaH et;e
p;uraH sady;aH
puraet;A asi
vAc;aH Urm;im
dyum;antam z;uSmam
pavasva zagD;i
nIyase ;indrAya
pUrvya p;avamAna
h;ariH aMz;uH
paripr;iyaH sAk;am
;ojasA ;A
te v;arZam
avy;aye s;omaH
D;ArayA pavate
devay;uH y;at
kqDi tv;Am
vizat h;ariH
t;ava pratn;eBiH
aDita s;Uryasya
h;Ardi kal;azeSu
pavase soma
t;at ;it
vidv;An aznoti
pav;itre r;ajasaH
praTam;am v;i
pavamAna durADy:aH
zr;avAMsi v;i
graTit;am punAn;aH
samasya k;asya
m;adena sah;a
anaviSwa g;AH
y;e tvA
qt;asya g;arBaH
adB;iH pariSicy;ase
dev;AnAm padav;IH
priy;aH vqtrah;A
s;inDavaH praz;iSam
saMgaT;e t;uByam
pavate sut;aH
pavasva an;ayA
dv;iSaH p;avamAnAH
g;oBiH zrIt;asya
;indum mahIy;uvaH
m;aDvA s;am
v;Aje n;a
suS;ahA t;Ani
v;qSA matIn;Am
dev;AH tr;ayaH
div;aH janit;A
durit;A soma
v;AjAn arSasi
;asiSyadat ;atyaH
y;Amani ;induH
j;anAn yatate
iva asi
DAvata m;aDu
mahIy;ate s;omena
suSwut;im ;A
te ;A
;asvApayat nig;utaH
pav;itre D;ArayA
praTam;am vyAnaz;e
;avAtaH pariD;In
vAvqDAn;am samudr;e
asvaran avit;A
DIn;Am ant;ar
t;ava vrat;e
vqZImahe y;e
pr;acetasaH m;ajjanti
dade s;a
srava y;aH
r;Arajat Ix;enyaH
yanti mat;ayaH
s;aniSyadat aBy-:aBi
apasy;uvaH y;ABiH
p;avamAnam avasyavaH
r;odasyoH r;aTaH
;amartyaH sapt;a
et;e D;AmAni
Diy;A t;am
vAy;ave div;aH
azv;inam aB;i
vAvazAn;AH anUSata
samaryar;Ajye v;AjAn
ap;aH sv:ar
priy;aH n;a
;ApaH sacante
pav;itre dakSas;ADanaH
div;aH n;a
p;ari D;AmAni
s;aKAyaH asvaran
aKyat r;odasI
rakSati p;Ati
indrahav;An s;aKiByaH
D;Amasu sqjAn;aH
s;Anu p;avamAnaH
I g;arBam
ray;im kqZvanti
indo praTam;aH
s;Uryam arocayat
sam;ayA v;Aram
v;aram v;i
aruZ;aH ruhat
viza mah;An
y;onA v;aneSu
pr;a t;u
d;uraH vqDi
v;AjasAtaye p;ari
arit;A iva
punAn;aH h;Ardi
eS;a pr;a
s;OBagAya suv;Iryasya
;ekasya p;iprataH
pavante Urm;ayaH
kav;iH ;A
;avicetasaH ;indrAya
p;ari pr;a
v;iprEH aB;iSwutaH
s;omam mah;e
praj;AvatIH vizv;AyuH
t;u drava
s;adma d;Evyam
j;eSi ca
bruv;an p;ari
vqj;anA im;A
vasuv;idaH et;e
gAyata naraH
D;armaBiH ;indrasya
v;qSaZam Barat
n;a jAm;im
yajY;EH svadayanta
sicyate marmqjy;amAnaH
n;a takti
dev;aH n;a
razan;ABiH nayanti
mad;intamaH s;omaH
v;Ar ;it
vqSwim;An iva
asi soma
iva zr;avase
rAy;e oky:aH
punAn;aH cam;U
vqjin;am ca
r;asaH ;induH
qt;asya D;arman
m;aDumattamam s;omam
iva yanti
rakS;asaH s;adAMsi
y;aH n;qBiH
n;avIyasIH p;atiH
avAvazanta v;AZIH
cinuyAma z;azvat
bahul;am vasImahi
g;aBastyoH B;arAsaH
nirZ;ijam vip;Am
marjayasi sv;e
B;uvanAni nirZ;ije
arocayat mah;An
;indraH m;adeSu
dyum;at y;azaH
y;aTA gaZ;am
pate vay;am
srava ;qSe
mqj;anti y;oSaZaH
sut;AH ;indram
soma ;aviDat
h;ariH v;aneSu
h;ariH ;atyaH
k;arat v;izvAni
p;ari t;Ani
asya viz;e
punAn;aH aB;i
;A viveziTa
v;qSZyam B;ava
v;i t;at
pav;itram akramIt
sAhv;An p;qtanAsu
im;A ;avarAZi
p;ari triD;AtuH
p;avamAnaH indo
saMtan;iH praGnat;Am
agriy;am v;arImaBiH
;apraBuH z;izuH
tr;iH ;ahan
n;a saty;aH
vicakSaZ;aH p;avamAnaH
y;aH mam;e
matsar;am m;adam
aB;iSwutaH pav;itre
asm;e indo
svAyuD;aH mad;intamaH
naH vIra
Baremahi ut;a
m;adAya punAn;am
pariy;Ati ;qkvaBiH
viza samudr;am
suvAn;aH ;adriBiH
dev;AnAm soma
;aDi s;ahaH
arSa j;ayan
d;EvyA p;avamAna
avy;ayam pav;itram
Ay;uBiH ;iBaH
eSi ;anu
y;onim ;A
;AyUMSi pavase
Am;uraH s;oma
m;aDu kSarat
asi s;aKA
anUSata ut;a
vA y;eBiH
v;adan gr;AvZA
svADy:aH svarv;idaH
Urm;iH p;avamAnaH
parAv;ataH t;am
k;avanDam ;ava
pqSW;am ;aDi
arSati g;omat
ray;im y;ena
pyAyasva s;am
suS;ahA soma
g;aCan v;Ajam
aB;i s;am
D;Amne p;avasva
;azvavat sut;aH
suh;avItunAmne svAd;uH
v;adan qtadyumna
rakSa naH
suv;Iryam d;aDat
vAjas;AtamaH d;aDat
y;ayA pIt;aH
pad;e-pade pAz;inaH
t;am marjayanta
puruzcandr;asya rAy;aH
y;aH pAvamAn;IH
v;aruZam m;atsi
lok;e ;akSite
h;ariH akrAn
v;izaH r;AjA
azvay;uH gavyay;uH
punAn;AH t;AH
y;at ;ahne
;A mitr;Av;aruZA
s;anABayaH vAj;inam
kav;im qt;asya
sn;uBiH ;avInAm
m;adaH saty;am
bapsati g;oH
vAj;I siSAsati
v;izvAni soma
pariSicy;ase mqjy;amAnaH
qt;asya sud;uGAH
zat;avAjaH ;induH
pIy;USam pUrvy;am
ganDarv;AH pr;ati
ulokak;qt ay;am
h;i suS;ahA
soma p;avamAnam
g;AH ut;a
duhit;A v;AreZa
aB;i g;avyAni
;indrasya yAhi
;Urjam j;anAya
pavate indriy;Aya
Anand;am jan;ayan
h;antave vavriv;AMsam
s;inDUnAm avasiSwa
Dart;A naH
m;Arutam pavasva
d;aDAnaH ;indre
n;a darzat;e
;qSim ay;am
p;AYcajanyaH pur;ohitaH
havAmahe p;avamAna
devazr;uttamam et;e
Urm;iZA taviSy;amAZaH
hant;A vqtr;AZAm
duSw;araH mqjy;amAnaH
tveS;am rUp;am
p;avamAnaH Urm;iZA
D;anam kAr;iZe
Azata pr;a
;iSaH s;a
zr;iyam v;asAnAH
kqpanta DIt;ayaH
sut;aH anuSvaD;am
v;izvasya B;UmanaH
;amartyaH p;ari
aB;i ArSey;am
mahiS;aH n;a
t;ava ah;am
soma s;omaH
;A ISati
mitr;Av;aruZA B;agam
gqZat;aH vqD;e
yUT;A p;ari
janit;A ut;a
;ataH mat;IH
naH vAc;aH
n;a mAt;araH
;indo saKitv;am
vqD;e s;oma
avy;ayA j;anaH
mat;avAn zakun;aH
vidat priy;am
v;asu h;astayoH
m;aDumattamam dev;eByaH
vAj;I akramIt
pumaH t;amAMsi
;akqntat ;ojasA
p;avamAnasya ;A
ca ;A
uzmasi pr;a
yat;aH ;A
v;i ;ojasA
gAT;am arcata
r;Asva suv;Iryam
b;qhasp;atiH mar;utaH
D;Ayase pr;a
svastim;at urukSit;O
s;omaH hinve
gr;AvaBiH sut;aH
r;akSasA sah;a
v;izvasmE ;it
s;Anavi j;uSwaH
DAvati D;ArA
Asate ;ut
z;uSmam n;i
atr;iZam sAhv;An
DUt;aH n;qBiH
gAyata aB;i
;apavaTAH m;anave
v;asUni aB;i
;aDi zrut;e
Ut;aye aB;i
asTAt v;izvA
;A n;a
s;omam dev;eByaH
yanti r;aMhayaH
;akrAn dev;aH
y;aH ugr;eByaH
AnuS;ak y;at
jigAti ;aZvyA
tv;otAsaH t;ava
p;avasva soma
kriyate suk;armaBiH
s;omam zrIZanti
k;AmaH n;a
iva mqjy;ate
en;A pavay;A
D;ArayA aB;i
UrDv;aH ganDarv;aH
asm;aByam indo
div;aH zat;aDAraH
Urm;im Iraya
hinv;anti D;IrAH
v;ipraH qt;A
g;oBiH m;adAya
m;ahoBiH k;anikradat
v;izvasya ;IzAnaH
;araruSaH svan;At
mandr;atamAH ev;a
s;a im;e
sapt;a D;AmaBiH
sut;aH eti
saMd;ahantaH avrat;An
dADAra s;am
k;anikradat daz;aBiH
r;asaH v;ajraH
y;avaM-yavam naH
;A ;adevam
n;i sIdasi
vAj;inaH vay;am
vay;am p;avamAnena
naH ;anDasA
ay;A nijaGn;iH
;adAByaH eS;a
Im ;unnItAH
s;am ;iSaH
t;anUn;apAt p;avamAnaH
y;Acante sumn;am
;aCa yUy;am
;indram ;avase
n;a st;omam
tast;amBa r;odasI
suvAn;aH soma
aps;u sv;AdiSWaH
m;anasA ;aha
kAr;uH ah;am
ca m;odAH
t;am gIrB;iH
qD;ak soma
matsar;AH indriy;AH
agriy;aH s;oma
sakS;aZim ;A
Imahe t;ava
;ojiSWaH y;uDvA
s;omAsaH rAy;e
vAy;ave et;e
ayAsIt ;indram
praTam;AH vqkt;abarhiSaH
sut;aH s;a
;anu draps;AsaH
v;izvAH avasy;uvaH
s;inDavaH pr;a
vqSw;ayaH pqTiv;Im
viveziTa punAn;aH
hat;a maK;am
aduCun;aH v;i
B;uvaneSu ;arpitaH
azAsata zriy;e
s;omaH dev;eByaH
kav;iH v;ayAMsi
n;a pazuv;arDanAya
z;am g;ave
pavamAna DAvati
v;anasp;atim pavamAna
uB;e ant;ar
ruc;e jananta
div;aH mUrD;AnaH
ca y;anti
ca dev;AH
;adAzuSaH g;ayam
camUS;adaH samudr;iyAH
;it v;ahantaH
aGazaMsah;A p;avasva
s;omam v;iprAH
yujAn;aH indo
v;AjaH soma
Urm;iZam p;ari
up;ari s;omaH
;aviBiH s;inDuBiH
uS;asaH sv:ar
it;aH siYcata
tAri ;AyuH
;A I
deva soma
n;a mAt;uH
s;inDavaH n;a
jUt;im v;qTA
samudr;aH asi
Asate h;otAraH
aruZ;am vay;am
niSkqt;am upapr;utam
mahivrata pqTiv;Im
zyen;aH zakun;aH
;IzAnaH ;ojasA
naH ;azvam
pit;A duh;e
p;avamAnAH asqkSata
viB;UvasuH d;aDAti
gqBZIta manT;inA
g;aBastyoH sv:ar
pIt;aye sun;ota
ty;am har;itaH
tv;Am rihanti
anukAm;am c;araZam
avy;aye s;a
ray;im zat;AtmAnam
;indavaH m;adAya
naH uB;AByAm
s;a mqjyate
m;adAya tozate
Iyase yujAn;aH
vAj;I pavasva
y;adi dev;asya
samudr;iyaH ;indrAya
vrat;e saj;oSasaH
y;am cakqS;e
;ati sr;iDaH
kqZute y;at
p;ari ty;am
ay;am Druv;aH
ay;am s;inDuByaH
;arAtyAH v;qkaH
s;aKAyaH ;A
B;aramAZaH g;aBastyoH
pratn;AsaH vy:uSwiSu
;oSaDIByaH p;avasva
c;akriH div;aH
v;aram ;A
p;avItAraH punIt;ana
v;icarSaZiH y;aH
soma D;ArayA
BUSata zriy;e
s;am s;inDuBiH
dev;aH savit;A
m;aDu pr;a
y;Atave ut;a
punanti kav;ayaH
p;avasva sv;apAH
p;ari s;argAsaH
kav;ayaH mqjanti
Ir;ayan vid;aTeSu
ty;am turv;azam
v;aneSu zakun;aH
kr;Ixan asarat
pqCate g;AH
p;avamAnam ;aDi
akSaran punAn;aH
qZv;anti veD;asaH
;aDi ven;AH
s;attA n;i
hinvAn;aH ;Apyam
D;arImaZi pr;a
p;atiH Diy;aH
pr;ayoBiH ;aCa
vAj;inam ;indum
div;aH ;adrimAtaram
vizvamejaya rAy;aH
m;aDumat Gqt;am
pr;a yayuH
s;oma r;Asva
;atra s;am
tqp;alam many;um
kqDi ;Urjam
r;asam et;e
p;avamAnaH sahasr;iZam
zakun;AH iva
svarv;idaH pravqZv;antaH
gayas;ADanam devAvy:am
y;aH ;atyaH
asvaran vasuv;idaH
v;i durmat;IH
p;ayaH sahasras;Am
qt;asya d;IDitim
jy;otiH ;ajasram
akSaran t;AH
n;a b;iBrat
takt;aH arSati
ca soma
tat;aH BiS;ak
kqZvanti c;etanam
akramIt s;a
manazc;it m;anasaH
nqS;Ahyam vIr;avantam
;Asate aruS;aH
mahitv;am Anaze
c;akSasA ;upa
ant;ar ukSit;aH
j;AgqviH ;avyaH
kqZv;an sup;aTAni
indrap;AnaH vqSw;im
purusp;qhaH n;i
s;iSAsan raTir;aH
aB;i pr;ayAMsi
s;am aYjate
iva y;aH
Ay;uSu stan;ayan
divisp;qze s;omAya
sahasraj;it hinvAn;aH
v;asuBiH n;a
pavate AyuS;ak
rakS;asaH indo
gqZAn;AH dev;avItaye
janiSwa rodasI
sr;iDaH jah;i
sud;qzaH nqc;akSasaH
pava s;a
suSwut;im vqSw;im
vats;am p;ayasA
m;anuSaH yajYas;ADanaH
h;ariH eti
tvA dev;eByaH
arSa svAyuDa
siSAs;atU rayIZ;Am
v;i tanvate
tozate n;i
tvac;i zraTnIt;e
z;UraH yuts;u
anUSata t;ayA
vayask;qtaH v;qTA
pavase mad;intamaH
manIS;Am g;AvaH
D;armaZaH p;ateH
tm;anA divy;AH
parvatAv;qDaH p;ariSkqtAsaH
mAMzcatv;e indo
m;adaH pr;a
y;avamat suv;Iryam
r;ADasaH mah;aH
;A j;igAt
vagn;uH ;A
B;uvanAni arSati
vanAmahe s;a
y;oSaZaH sut;am
aBikr;andan kal;azam
codaya d;akSaH
hare mar;udByaH
kSara aB;i
am;qtAya m;aDvaH
d;Evyam ca
rakS;asam k;am
dev;apsarastamaH s;aKA
azv;inA t;e
tv;acam ;asiknIm
aps;u s;Uryam
s;omAsaH azvay;A
saty;aH aDvar;aH
soma pqts;u
soma vizvav;it
j;anam ;A
v;qSA ;A
v;ArAZi arSa
mAt;araH kuv;it
mitr;e v;aruZe
p;ari sicyase
;indo v;Ajam
;apa UrZu
nirZ;ijam g;AH
;arjunam v;Aram
r;asam tIvr;am
aB;i niSkqt;am
divy;A v;asUni
pav;itre p;ari
minan y;at
;A ;indo
;avye h;ariH
n;a vAj;I
durAvy:am sAhv;AMsaH
arSati t;am
iva upad;qk
v;areZyam ;A
n;qBiH DUt;aH
p;anTAm n;a
saty;azuSmaH k;AmaH
c;Aru ;induH
dev;avItaye ;indo
g;aBastyoH ;At
;aruSIBiH v;ayaH
qt;asya p;anTAm
manIS;iZaH ev;a
p;avamAnasya dUXy:A
d;ivam iSZ;an
d;aDAnaH ;ojasA
;apa sr;iDaH
adrivaH nud;asva
qB;uH D;IraH
mah;e dyumn;Aya
d;aDat r;atnAni
eS;a sy;a
v;qSA B;AratI
z;ucibanDuH pAvak;aH
y;at te
payov;qDA t;am
zukr;AH vAy;um
s;aKyuH n;a
vIry:Aya codaya
z;aryAZi t;AnvA
pratn;am asya
razm;ayaH drAvayitn;avaH
r;asam m;adAya
dAz;uSaH gqh;e
;qSe mantrak;qtAm
;A yayO
m;A�zcatve vA
Aviz;an ;indrasya
asy;a p;atim
p;avamAnaH saMtan;iH
t;uByam DAvanti
suk;armaBiH dev;aH
Danva pasty:AvAn
daDAti zr;iyam
vAy;um s;omAH
r;asaH v;ipraH
kqDi ;indrAya
ut;a kr;atum
pavasva naH
pqSW;am barh;aZA
;asarji kal;aze
mat;I juSw;aH
d;qtim triD;Atu
p;avamAnaH svaDvar;aH
nanAza t;am
pur;u DiyAyate
h;otArA d;EvyA
t;u pavasva
t;anA car;uH
;A pava
dvayAv;inaH dr;aviZasvantaH
vajr;iZe s;omAsaH
p;avasva p;avamAnaH
dr;aviZasvantaH ih;a
ganDarv;aH itT;A
cit ;atra
soma D;armaBiH
pur;A nUn;am
v;iSZoH brahm;A
dyum;at indo
priy;aH m;adaH
t;Ani punAna
;adAByam t;am
sqjy;amAnaH v;qTA
D;Ayase ;A
vyAnaz;e pad;am
;ut v;Acam
ev;a te
apt;uram g;oBiH
asm;e v;arcaH
ap;aH vqZAn;aH
iva vagn;uH
varivov;it ;adAByaH
D;AmnA y;atra
n;ikAmAH aDvary;avaH
y;am miTun;AsaH
;A asadaH
enam m;aDvaH
kave p;avasva
anUSata g;AvaH
tvA h;astEH
pr;acyutaH gr;AvaBiH
te r;ucaH
t;akSat y;adi
iva priy;am
g;oBiH ;uttaram
mqjanti kal;aze
;A hiraZy;aye
puSw;am-puSwam p;ari
g;AH iyakSati
vivAsati s;a
sam;asvaran zl;okayantrAsaH
indra t;uByam
;apa soma
v;qSaZam m;adam
pavate c;anohitaH
im;AH praj;AH
vats;aH n;a
vandit;uH indo
viz;e asy;E
iva dIyati
pratir;an m;ahi
m;aryaH n;a
sut;am soma
vAm yajY;eSu
;avase mah;e
d;aza y;oSaZaH
m;adAH ;induH
jAt;AsaH ;indavaH
;indrAt qt;e
;A daDe
sT;aH sv:arpatI
puSyasi v;izvAni
g;aCan ;AyuDA
n;a pUrv;acittaye
p;OMsyA ;indram
viveza p;avasva
ty;am haryat;am
g;omat y;avamat
pIt;aye ;aDvaryo
im;e asya
v;aram ut;a
bqh;at aB;i
Danvantu ;indavaH
daDiSe s;a
r;omaZvantO Bed;O
mah;I n;a
zuBr;aH tanv:am
naH jy;otIMSi
n;a z;qVge
v;AjAn vqzc;a
maG;avadByaH ca
vay;am v;izvA
asadat punAn;aH
Apt;AH k;AmAH
m;aDvaH pavante
;avye sasAra
g;aCan kav;ikratuH
pavamAna te
v;izve ca
n;araH hit;am
s;omam hinota
v;qSacyutAH m;adAsaH
ukT;am y;at
kqZvAn;aH n;a
navat;IH n;ava
n;a v;izaH
prAt;ar t;An
praz;iSam soma
aBarat vinaMgqs;aH
anum;AdyaH n;qBiH
vA D;armaZi
y;at adB;iH
kqZute tigm;azqVgaH
y;onim aB;i
te tv;am
h;ariH agreg;aH
gAtuv;it et;am
asarat s;am
h;arayaH v;i
svarS;AH sah;asraZITaH
;atra v;AtaH
v;izvam pavamAna
j;Ayate svay;am
;indrAya pUrvy;aH
vrat;Ani j;anAnAm
z;izuH n;a
v;Ajam g;omantam
punAn;aH vAt;Apyam
v;i rocayat
p;ajrAyAH garBa
r;asena pqYc;an
naH s;omaH
raGuj;AH iva
p;ayasA madir;aH
yajY;asya pUrvy;aH
vqtr;Aya h;antave
sqj;a vqSw;im
v;arImaBiH s;am
;A y;onim
suv;Iryam t;e
Urm;iZA devAvy:am
p;arA sicaH
qtAv;qDaH dqz;e
avy;aye ;avAvazanta
asm;e mAt;uH
sv:ar dqz;e
sm;asi hit;AH
jan;ayan g;iraH
;abiByuSA hqd;A
kAr;am b;iBrat
dy;utam zukr;am
indo ;azvavat
Im k;e
gqZ;antaH kAr;avaH
v;ipraH aBavaH
t;am s;AnO
;Urjam ca
sqj;ata gayas;ADanam
pasty:AvAn j;uSwaH
n;a tvA
kr;atve d;akSAya
;etazaH kr;atvA
matsar;aH p;avasva
j;ane v;izvAH
urugAy;aH kav;ikratuH
s;Udam pavasva
Urm;iH kav;iH
Urv;e g;AH
pras;upaH sAk;am
zrit;I tirazc;atA
vAt;Apyam vizv;azcandram
;aZvAni meSy:aH
jAm;ayaH p;atim
s;adA naH
s;omaH v;ipreBiH
yAti saMy;ataH
arSati tir;aH
sut;aH g;omat
h;ariH dev;eSu
B;UrZayaH s;omAH
v;izO s;a
D;IrAH cit
y;onA kal;azeSu
s;Uryasya iva
vqSw;im dev;eByaH
codaya pav;im
D;uram n;a
vy:uSwiSu s;omAH
satyakarman zradD;Am
v;Are punanti
m;arjyam ;upa
hit;am j;anima
n;arA ca
sut;aH kqD;i
vqtr;AZi jiGnate
dr;oZA k;anikradat
v;AreZa y;aH
s;a sUn;uH
ay;am te
n;ityastotraH v;anasp;atiH
v;itatam brahmaZaH
pavate punAn;aH
;arocayaH hinvAn;aH
punAn;aH ;upa
;ojasA t;am
s;inDavaH s;oma
ayoji mah;aH
akS;aBiH qZ;oH
n;ABA n;ABim
sp;qDaH s;a
aruS;aH n;a
n;a yanti
v;qSaZam vayoD;Am
naH kave
;A y;at
;adriBiH sut;aH
arSati p;avamAna
aBavaH vicakSaZa
v;qSZe ;indum
vy:omani ;ataH
h;i tvA
;indo ;indrAya
sicaH ;A
hv;arAMsi r;aMhyA
y;at punAn;aH
B;USan d;akSAya
mqjanti d;aza
pazyema s;Uryam
Av;iH te
svAdate h;ariH
jIradAno z;ikSa
sukr;atuH tr;I
naH aB;i
s;omaH indriy;aH
v;izvA div;aH
samudr;am praTam;aH
c;AruZaH s;adA
nqc;akSase ;A
n;amoBiH ;indavaH
samIcIn;AH sud;AnavaH
ukS;aZam giriSW;Am
rodasI ray;im
punAn;aH pUrv;IH
t;uByam p;avamAna
y;ena v;izvAni
Asate pit;A
;A z;amBaviSWaH
t;at ah;am
dev;AsaH pIt;im
s;a sunve
tv;aSwAram agraj;Am
naH punAn;aH
kal;azam devay;uH
k;am v;i
punAn;aH B;uvanA
;iSaH ;aCa
;aDvaryo ;adriBiH
;UDar divy;am
;indo B;ava
te mitr;aH
g;aCan jAr;aH
v;AreZa z;azvatA
;IzAnaH soma
sya graTit;am
vIr;avantam purusp;qham
jAt;aH ih;a
taviSy;amAZaH jaW;areSu
parAv;ataH ;aTa
tvA y;oSaZaH
n;a vAjay;um
ay;am s;omaH
k;am avqZIta
s;UryAsaH n;a
zr;avase D;iyam
daDe vidv;An
;agne v;itatam
iva p;atyO
akSAr samudr;am
aB;i v;Ajam
punAn;aH asadat
mqjanti p;ari
B;ojanA pUy;amAnaH
dev;avItO ;A
avatam naH
pavamAna rada
;ataH tvA
y;am div;aH
pazyate v;izO
;ava padAti
hinvanti ap;asaH
v;ArAZi avy;ayA
sah;asrapAjasaH duhAn;aH
ap;aH s;iSAsan
manIS;iZam ;AsInAH
aDAviSwa s;Anavi
v;Aram p;ari
;upa mAsva
Im agman
punAn;aH aruS;aH
p;atiH v;izvasya
vqtrah;A devav;ItamaH
mah;aH cit
B;uvanAni vAjay;uH
soma praTam;AH
div;aH ;ava
praj;AH divy;asya
Bara ary;aH
duduhAn;aH ;adrO
durit;A pavasva
DAva m;aDu
punAna jaVGanaH
soma pavase
kave t;ava
sumn;asya aDrigo
v;qTA et;e
agqBZata s;a
pUy;amAnaH ;indram
durit;Ani viGn;an
v;astrA suvasan;Ani
meSy:aH mIX;e
praTam;aH v;i
r;ucaH p;avamAna
suraB;iH ;adabDaH
;indrAya v;qSZe
m;anave vayoD;AH
y;aH im;e
DIt;iBiH d;ame
pUSZ;e pavasva
;akramIt t;am
sam;atsu ;aSAXaH
payov;qDam s;omam
g;iraH vats;am
p;Atave asy;a
B;uvanA kave
ruc;A pariSw;oBantyA
duduhre saty;Am
m;aDvaH devAv;IH
y;e ArjIk;eSu
indo vIr;avat
s;IdantaH van;uSaH
y;aH vqSw;eH
;aDi y;eSu
durADy:aH div;i
div;aH pad;A
;ati v;Aram
dAnud;aH divy;aH
soma p;avamAnaH
viSwamB;aH upam;aH
Bur;ijoH Diy;A
div;aH pIy;USam
yam;A par;aH
s;Ama kqZv;an
pit;araH padajY;AH
m;atsi vAy;um
gAhate y;adi
vAjay;uH cakrAZ;aH
tv;am asm;at
nqc;akSAH asarat
asm;aByam soma
asqgran p;ayasA
;ahne ;akqZot
tvA sut;am
s;asniH v;Ajam
m;AnuSISu ;A
daDn;A y;at
vqtrahantama ukT;eBiH
;A rohasi
kqt;Ani ;it
r;odasI uB;e
ukTy:am p;avamAnaH
sAnas;iH kr;atve
indo ;indram
g;AvaH yanti
punAn;aH ;aviBiH
yajYas;ADanaH z;uciH
s;aH D;anvan
har;itA yAti
vipazc;itam ap;Am
zat;aDAraH vicakSaZ;aH
s;aKAyaH t;at
eS;a pur;u
s;aKye n;aryaH
;aCa carAmasi
tvac;i g;avAm
hinvAn;aH ajyate
amqkSanta vAj;inam
viveza s;Ama
sIdati n;u
Iyase ;anu
dugD;am ;aditeH
pariSicy;amAnaH v;ayaH
pavate D;ArayA
eti h;arSate
kqSw;ayaH tv;am
v;qSA v;i
soma g;omataH
apaGn;an eSi
As;adam aps;u
Dar;uZaH mah;aH
z;ocantaH asya
mimikSa naH
D;Ama mahiS;aH
dy;OH aB;i
Im ;aZvIH
amuYcaTAH p;avamAna
arocayat p;avamAnaH
v;qTA samudr;am
kave p;avamAnasya
zatagv;inam ray;im
;indum dev;AH
s;am tvA
mah;Amahivratam m;adam
vAvazAn;aH v;qSA
j;anAnAm v;izvA
cayate ;At
n;u saty;am
d;evAsaH t;An
n;a g;oBiH
;agman ukT;Ani
r;ADase punAn;aH
vavriv;AMsam mah;IH
gAt;um vqjin;am
cit h;i
purAZy;A punAn;am
;ahardivi br;ahma
navante aB;i
jin;Ati n;a
;indreZa ut;a
zrit;aH div;aH
n;ihitAH av;aH
vAy;um asqkSata
cit paripr;iyaH
te m;aDumAn
dyumnav;arDanaH B;ava
jr;ayaH n;i
dvit;A ;upa
maKasy;uvam punAn;aH
hast;inaH m;aDumantam
jy;otiH yajY;asya
pavamAna DAraya
Im azizrayuH
g;oBiH mqjyate
vAzr;AH arSanti
m;adAya aps;u
s;oma dvib;arhasam
;arSati zat;am
te vAj;inaH
anUSata y;oSA
;anDasA devAv;IH
indo dyumnav;arDanaH
n;a diviy;ajaH
jajYAn;aH s;Uryam
punAn;aH avy;aye
aBiSwik;qt v;icarSaZiH
takt;aH arSasi
sut;aH sv;adanti
zaryaZ;Avati s;omam
DAvati p;avamAnaH
;A s;u
aDvar;e jAy;A
;ekam ;it
mar;udByaH s;omaH
n;ABaH n;ihitAH
pUrB;it pEdv;aH
aB;i s;antam
n;a s;atvaBiH
zukr;A gqBZIta
rAy;aH samudr;An
y;at kav;iH
ArSey;am jamadagniv;at
;A tv;iSim
jarit;qByaH daDAti
vAc;aH jant;uH
m;adAya p;ari
dev;An v;izvAn
Ut;iBiH sah;asram
huve ;induH
goS;Am ;aZveSu
asyAn div;aH
naH soma
I vats;am
vAj;inaH akrata
mAt;arA tanvAn;AH
div;aH pad;am
y;asmin g;AvaH
vic;qtam aB;iSwaye
raTir;aH g;aviSwiSu
;indo y;aTA
DiS;aZAByaH tv;am
s;UryeZa rocate
upam;aH vicakSaZ;aH
sy;a puruvrat;aH
sasvaje pr;a
oky:aH ;asarji
nahuSy:eBiH ;induH
ut;a ah;am
vA p;qzane
v;qSA pav;itre
naH rAy;e
p;ari eti
mat;iBiH p;ariSkqtaH
;aDi sn;unA
y;uDvA mahat;aH
vay;am syAma
ca v;qSaZam
;qSimanAH y;aH
kr;atvA r;odasI
hiyAn;aH D;ArABiH
n;a vqSw;ayaH
p;AjAMsi kqZute
;indavaH ;astam
barh;iSi prav;Ace
vAjas;aniH varivov;it
z;uSmam ;A
Atm;A ;indrasya
;ati ;ava
ket;uH pavate
aB;i k;ozam
tir;aH v;arpAMsi
soma sut;asya
dev;aH dev;Aya
g;onAm adB;iH
n;a het;qBiH
haMs;aH y;aTA
marjayanta suv;qDam
;it sv:ar
v;AjAya D;anyAya
;avye vaDUy;uH
;indrAya matsar;aH
ur;u jy;otIMSi
tvac;i k;anikradat
n;Ake asTAt
Urm;O s;inDuSu
suk;armaBiH pr;a
Ad;edizAnaH zaryah;A
Az;um v;AjAya
mahat;aH D;anasya
r;aTam hasan;Am
sut;aH v;izvAn
hinvat;IH sapt;a
aznuSe pr;a
aB;i zrIZItana
r;oruvat s;Idan
s;a vAm
nIyate ant;ar
z;izuH y;aH
s;argAsaH Az;avaH
AsAm apIcy:am
arSati ;agre
sy;a pIt;aye
;anu pUrvy;aH
;aditeH up;asTe
vAc;aH agriy;aH
v;arZaH asya
eSAm iSir;AsaH
r;ADaH d;itsantam
B;agaH n;qz;aMsaH
s;apanti y;am
draps;An Ir;ayan
r;odasI pqZa
;adButaH ;indrAya
s;aptiH iva
arSati v;qSA
p;ArTivA p;avantAm
p;atim pqSW;A
s;am g;oBiH
yAhi D;ArayA
zat;aDAraH pavasva
sy;a s;omaH
dev;eByaH m;aDumattamaH
vipazc;itam t;anA
BAn;unA dyum;antam
k;oze m;aDumAn
viv;asvataH D;iyaH
D;Ama s;a
DAvati ;induH
s;omAsaH madacy;utaH
yAti niSkqt;am
suvAn;aH D;ArayA
v;iprAsaH Apir;e
n;IcIH sut;AsaH
pr;a pyAyasva
s;omam ;ava
cit janap;Anam
;indrAya pavase
aB;i prav;at
sasqjAn;AsaH Aj;O
indo suBv:am
praB;USataH s;aptim
sady;aH v;AjeBiH
dev;am ;aCa
;iSaH vqSw;im
indo eSAm
madintama sv;adasva
g;aBastyoH j;uSwaH
;upa zikSa
ahyan p;avamAnam
samIcIn;e ;A
sut;aH aB;i
janit;A ;indrasya
d;aDyAziraH pav;itram
akramIt aB;i
v;asAnaH g;AH
mIXv;An aB;i
v;AvahiH kr;iviH
vqDi ;asqkSata
y;atra v;izve
tArIt m;A
asmin piz;aVgam
akramuH s;omam
sukrato m;A
pavamAna z;atrUn
yajY;EH avIvqDan
Imahe sumat;I
p;avamAnasya ;anu
nig;utaH sneh;ayat
d;akSasya raTy:am
ray;im naH
yayuH sAt;im
v;Are mahIyate
ray;im m;ayi
mahADan;am svAyuD;aH
s;an s;omaH
div;aH c;Arum
asadat h;ariH
sapt;AsyeBiH ;qkvaBiH
g;oSu jAn;an
s;omAH pav;itre
vizv;azcandram pr;a
apIcy:am g;uhyam
tr;In s;a
vAj;I aruS;aH
Urm;im et;e
adravat j;AH
r;aTAH iva
Ag;aman j;anyAsaH
srava j;aratIBiH
rudr;AsaH eSAm
pr;ati drAp;im
vats;asya mAt;araH
indo atr;iZaH
g;iraH ven;AnAm
;ojasA aB;i
purukSo ev;a
pavate janit;A
;aDukSata priy;am
z;am naH
divy;A y;aTA
asi vizv;ataH
pr;a ant;ar
p;ari k;ozam
mqjanti m;arjyam
jah;i z;atrum
qSv;am sv;asAraH
;A te
jAm;ayaH v;ipram
siSakti uS;asam
vAsayAmasi s;a
s;omam v;izvasya
aB;i ;ekam
ap;aH v;i
p;avasva vizvamejaya
rihanti mAt;araH
jaBriSe t;ava
pIt;im Azata
;A pavasva
hinvAn;aH v;Acam
asadat pr;a
s;attA ;A
;ut ;AtEH
pr;a suvAn;aH
s;inDoH ucCvAs;e
;adridugDaH ;induH
te vay;am
y;uDvA s;an
y;aTA p;UrveByaH
pqSW;Ani r;odasoH
n;a Bara
;it ;upa
k;anikradat n;qBiH
p;ayaH n;a
vraj;am tatniSe
iva r;AjAnaH
rItyApaH svarv;idaH
s;Uryasya duhit;A
s;am razm;iBiH
daDanve puruv;AraH
ty;e soma
v;asAnaH yajat;aH
;agman qt;asya
s;ukqtam somy;am
;anu ;ekam
tv;aSwA savit;A
v;AcaH Irayati
div;aH hav;iH
kal;aze devayUn;Am
p;ArTivA v;asUni
sahasr;iZaH pr;a
hinvanti DIt;iBiH
iva B;areSu
v;anam v;qSA
sut;AH pav;itram
mqj;anti qSiSAZa
soma avac;Akazat
qt;AvA dev;aH
d;aDat ray;im
tqt;Iyam D;Ama
;udyatam Bqt;im
yanti ras;inaH
ukS;A mimAti
Urm;iH ap;Am
r;oruvat asury:am
p;avamAnasya s;arasvatI
aps;u draps;am
b;ADaH ;apa
modate n;asate
vIt;I arSa
veD;asaH v;izvA
h;arim baBr;um
m;aDumattamaH ;asqgran
azv;inam puruzcandr;am
ray;im ;upa
;atyUrmiH matsar;aH
B;agam ca
pav;itram Urm;ayaH
pavasva s;ahamAnaH
s;omAsaH Ay;avaH
kqSZ;Am ;apa
Den;UH sud;uGAH
mahiS;aH mqg;AZAm
t;ava indo
;aCa k;ozam
g;AH ;asya
DAvati Dvasr;ayoH
madacy;utaH zr;avase
brahmasav;EH punIhi
Danvantu s;omAH
Bava m;aMhiSWaH
vay;am ;indo
sah;asraBqSwiH jayasi
s;Adane ;indrAya
;induH ;azvaH
s;a punAn;aH
D;AmAni ;AryA
v;arZam aB;i
pavate z;uci
m;adaH m;ahi
sunv;anti s;omam
s;am ;arvataH
;indavaH s;omAH
t;An aB;i
jan;aya ;AyuDAni
im;am ;aGnyAH
indo ray;im
sut;AH vid;aTe
k;anikradat p;avasva
n;are ca
svard;qzaH qt;asya
mit;adrO ;iSam
en;A v;izvAni
durm;arSam sAk;am
uS;asam n;a
suK;am r;aTam
pavate m;qDaH
sy;Ama vanv;antaH
v;Are p;ari
zrIZ;antaH g;oBiH
y;aTA te
v;iprasya gqZat;aH
duhit;uH tir;aH
pUrvy;aH n;qBiH
nqmZ;A d;aDAnaH
k;ozam ;arSan
qtavAk;ena saty;ena
;aDi barh;iSi
g;arBam ;A
r;ucaH ;ut
n;a mAmqj;e
duh;anti ;adriBiH
d;adqzAnaH usr;iyaH
zrIZ;anti agriy;am
hiraZy;aye aB;i
majm;anA yUT;e
z;am rAjan
naH B;agAya
ay;am d;akSAya
marmqjAn;am mahiS;am
;A soma
mah;e v;AjAya
avar;oDanam div;aH
pav;itre akSAr
;A grAB;am
r;aTaH ;avyaH
;agre r;aTAnAm
yajY;eSu varDate
dev;An ;adaDAt
eS;a pav;itre
avyata ;induH
duh;anti aps;u
sisrate t;uByam
y;atra ;azayat
codate ant;ar
Az;avaH r;aTAH
g;arBam qtAv;qDaH
;asi B;agaH
pavasva dev;eByaH
y;aH uttam;am
kr;atum rihanti
g;uhyAni n;Ama
n;a D;anvan
sIdati g;aCan
sut;aH mat;iBiH
jahi p;avamAnaH
k;ozAsaH aBr;avarSAH
;anIke ;At
pad;e z;ocantaH
m;adAmasi mah;e
;ayuktAH ;atyAsaH
v;asvaH purusp;qhaH
n;azan naH
jan;ayan praj;AH
n;i sIda
v;izvasya rAjasi
;indavaH mad;intamAsaH
soma t;Ani
jahi ;adabDaH
akSAr pav;itram
v;izvAni tiSWati
arSati p;avasva
paT;aH r;ajaH
mad;intamAH zukr;AH
Bajate mahADan;am
punAn;aH kqZute
m;aMhIyAn tv;am
girAv;qDam ;indo
;indrAya y;ajyave
te m;ahaH
aMz;uH m;adAya
asqkSata gr;AvZA
z;ikSa zacIvaH
akSAr p;ari
m;adAya z;umBate
p;ayasA pinvat
ajy;ase v;ane
;indrasya D;Amne
n;a s;inDum
n;a n;IcIH
u ayAsIt
v;itataH pav;itre
v;aruZasya mAy;ayA
mUrD;an yajY;asya
aDvar;e BrAj;A
mandr;aH ;ojiSWaH
iva yUT;A
bqhat;e pavasva
;indre s;am
jy;eSWasya vA
tanv:am mqjAn;aH
j;ahAti ;apracetasaH
soma r;aMhyA
h;arim mqjanti
s;etavaH pit;uH
v;qSA pav;itram
pratIc;I soma
D;armAZi daDiSe
gAt;uH suy;amaH
s;am cikradaH
priyas;AsaH Ut;I
sapt;a t;eBiH
yajY;am mimikSa
;it ;indraH
p;Atave m;adAya
kal;azam vAj;I
tvac;i pr;a
m;aDu D;ArA
manIS;AH aB;i
qt;am bqh;at
zumBanti pUrv;aTA
D;AmAni y;Ani
;avyA divy;AH
p;avasva bqhat;IH
n;qBiH sut;asya
v;qSA ap;Am
n;qBiH s;omaH
sasAra p;avamAnaH
viB;qtvA govind;uH
DAvati p;avasva
Aviz;an aB;i
v;Acam jan;ayan
maTAy;at iSit;aH
te sot;AraH
s;amidDaH vizv;ataH
ray;im vIr;avatIm
vasuv;it j;AyamAnaH
mUrD;AnaH pr;asTitAH
;indram s;omAsaH
kav;iH n;qBiH
kakuh;aH somy;aH
matsata dvayAv;inaH
vyAnaz;iH p;avamAnaH
bqh;an ;aDi
p;atiH s;inDUnAm
n;a m;arjyaH
c;akSasi priy;am
Az;iram y;e
kal;azeSu s;attA
vacyasva m;ahi
rAsi vIr;avat
h;i sT;aH
arSanti s;inDavaH
tripqSW;aH uS;asaH
nqc;akSAH dev;avItaye
duh;e Im
DAvata suhastyaH
arSa ;anapacyutaH
;indrAya tozate
punAn;aH yAti
kqDi tv;am
div;i te
m;Arutam m;atsi
vind;ati m;Am
pavate rAy;e
y;aH p;aYca
y;aH qt;ajAtaH
v;iprAsaH ;aZvyA
eS;a v;qSA
srava n;aBaH
vay;am t;ava
qSik;qt svarS;AH
svast;iBiH s;adA
vid;aTe akramuH
sacante samAn;e
jy;otiH vEzvAnar;am
nam;ayan vaDasn;EH
trit;asya D;ArayA
pqTivy;AH gir;iSu
m;AkiH naH
n;a darzat;aH
mqjy;amAnaH daz;aBiH
anum;AdyaH p;avamAnaH
ut;a dev;ahUtiBiH
pavasva v;asumat
;adriBiH p;avamAnam
n;qBiH st;avAnaH
r;AjA iva
razm;iBiH yatate
Irate g;AvaH
y;onA s;am
ray;im dadAtu
kqZvAn;aH nirZ;ijam
;anu kSara
;A dyumn;Ani
pUrvy;am m;adam
sut;aH punAn;aH
mandAn;aH ;ut
mimAti pr;ati
;avyam s;a
t;am te
y;asmin lok;e
;it kqz;AnoH
j;anaH dAD;Ara
suv;Iryam v;qSA
n;a j;AgqviH
z;uBaH sp;arDante
y;aH indrap;AtamaH
te pav;itram
p;atiH maKasyate
im;A B;uvanAni
;iSam g;omat
anUSata mqjy;ase
sut;aH pav;itram
vizp;atiH vqSw;im
m;imAti v;ahniH
dev;AH dev;eByaH
DarZas;im ;At
arSati ;induH
sv;AhAkqtim p;avamAnasya
pAvak;aH ;adButaH
y;aTA p;qTak
j;anima vivakti
g;avyAni vIt;aye
punat;e ;At
h;astayoH daD;e
zukr;AsaH vayoj;uvaH
varivov;it hav;iSmAn
n;ABA vicakSaZ;aH
asi p;ari
m;aDumattamam kav;im
raBas;Ani datte
viveda div;aH
sot;qBiH pUy;amAnaH
zqZve Aj;O
uz;antam t;am
s;a y;atra
k;anikradat v;izvAH
caranti m;Am
dr;oZam nanakSe
jAm;ayaH h;arim
kapard;ine Gqt;am
zr;avaH citr;eBiH
vIr;avantam ugr;am
upalaprakS;iZI nan;A
;iSaH D;ArayA
t;am asya
gaCasi d;aDat
gIrB;iH k;Avyena
p;invamAnaH Ir;ayan
tirazc;atA gavy;A
;A Iraya
m;ahi zr;avaH
divy;AH asqgran
s;u jAt;am
;indrAya pIt;aye
s;atvaBiH v;qTA
s;omam j;anasya
arZav;aH jyot;IraTaH
maG;A ca
avqZoH ;apa
pitr;oH apIcy:am
pav;itram soma
mqjyate eS;a
vqj;anam r;akSamAZaH
r;etasA sacate
bqh;at s;omaH
;aDa dvit;A
s;inDuSu zrit;aH
n;a d;aBAya
g;omAn g;oBiH
vipazc;itam punAn;aH
m;aDu urv;I
suvAn;AsaH ;indavaH
soma vIr;avat
;indrasya tanv:am
v;asu s;am
D;ArayA pr;a
v;AreBiH ut;a
kal;azAn ;asiSyadat
p;atayaH syAma
g;avyam ;azvyam
mah;I s;am
iSyati ;induH
;amartyaH nirZijAn;aH
naH pumaH
uB;e ;anu
kqDi t;ava
vajr;iZe sun;ota
ruc;A-rucA dev;aH
g;oBiH sqjy;ate
jaW;aram sup;ezasaH
gir;A sut;AH
jAy;A iva
aB;i v;izvA
pr;a manIS;AH
pavasva saMy;atam
avy;ayam v;Aram
sukqty;ayA Imahe
d;aDat asm;aByam
haryat;am B;UricakSasam
;upa yanti
k;asya cit
sut;aH vyAnaz;iH
kal;azAn ayAsIt
zukr;Am upast;iram
pr;a te
DIB;iH hinvanti
asvaran ;aDa
mahiS;AH ;adabDAH
n;a pUrv;IH
punAn;aH ;ajItaye
qt;asya viSw;apam
;it asya
D;ArAH asazc;ataH
D;ArayA sah;asravalzam
v;asAnaH ;aDi
madintama pav;itram
v;AryA v;qSA
sut;aH n;qBiH
divy;AH aB;i
am;itrAn ;apa
u arvAv;ataH
;A v;Acam
azvaj;it vizvaj;it
y;at ;avye
s;a pratnav;at
;arZasA et;e
indo h;iraZyavat
akSAr ;induH
tir;aH ;aZvAni
rAjan aduCun;aH
d;aDAnaH v;asAnaH
vqkS;am n;a
s;oma v;izveBiH
m;adAH Ahan;asaH
D;ArABiH jan;ayantaH
mat;im kav;iH
;anti dUr;At
v;ahnim s;adanAni
aB;i eti
;aspqtaH p;avamAnaH
yanti ket;avaH
rodasI dev;aH
nady:aH v;i
s;anti y;Atave
h;ariH s;an
sAt;aye paripray;antam
u priy;AH
D;ArayA v;Ajam
tv;Am aruZ;am
aYjate yajY;aH
v;asAnaH mah;An
zat;am D;ArAH
sahasr;iZam p;ari
zvet;am rUp;am
gqBZ;anti y;oSaZaH
v;AjeSu vAj;inam
dev;AH m;aDoH
pavate Ay;ave
sicyase manazc;it
sv:arcakSAH raTir;aH
hasan;Am upamantr;iZaH
n;ABim naH
k;ozam arSasi
s;omena Anand;am
div;aH suparZ;aH
asi DAray;uH
y;adi mqj;anti
tAriSaH Av;iH
pav;itre akSarat
v;i didyute
y;e m;aDye
;UDar ;aGnyAyAH
m;Am ih;a
v;iprAH ;upa
DAvati s;aKAyaH
pavante ;indavaH
p;avamAnaH siSAsati
;adriBiH pavate
pratn;ena v;ayasA
vinaMgqs;aH s;am
asqgran zuSm;I
sqjAn;am ;ati
upapr;utam kqZute
draps;am vAvqDAn;am
hinvanti madacy;utam
eti pav;itre
;anu pazyate
iva s;adma
naH ;asarji
arSanti D;ArayA
arSanti baBr;avaH
pavay;A pavasva
pit;A dev;AnAm
u ty;e
ven;AH duhanti
asqkSata et;e
gAtuv;ittamaH v;Ajam
kqSZ;A t;amAMsi
priy;am jah;i
arSa p;ari
p;ari priy;eZa
srava zaryaZ;Avati
;induH g;oBiH
;amIvAm b;ADamAnaH
eS;a rukm;iBiH
tv;Am uz;ijaH
kSeti jAm;iBiH
;apa zv;Anam
arSa pav;itre
pqC;amAnAH s;omam
asya v;qSan;Ama
Urm;ayaH v;anAni
cam;U sut;AH
svast;aye n;qBiH
uS;asaH div;aH
asi ;A
;A br;ahma
vicakSaZ;aH j;AgqviH
kS;ayam daDe
ark;asya y;onim
arSa suv;Iryam
;adriBiH sut;AsaH
jajYAn;am sapt;a
r;asaH mah;An
indo UrZuhi
;iSam tok;Aya
mand;inaH pav;itravantaH
yuvat;iBiH s;am
s;omam ;aCa
vipazc;it s;omaH
anUSata sah;asraDAram
asqkSata jIr;AH
d;aDAnaH kal;aze
DukS;asva pipy;uSIm
sAt;aye zr;avaH
dyutAn;aH vAj;iBiH
devay;u s;a
g;opatI IzAn;A
pr;a gAhase
vAsayAmasi punAn;aH
te pavate
vizv;ataH triB;iH
sut;aH pratn;am
aps;u vqSaB;am
ih;a p;avamAna
n;i v;ayaH
yamy:A saMyat;I
punAn;aH rUp;e
p;avate v;Are
naH ;AyuH
manIS;iBiH s;omaH
;adriBiH nUn;am
divy;am p;ArTivam
manIS;iZaH matsar;AsaH
kany:A anUSata
Az;avaH div;aH
veda v;asUnAm
mitr;am pr;a
;indrAya pavamAna
D;anAni jigy;uSaH
draviZod;AH iva
t;at Am;aH
zumB;anti v;ahnim
kav;ayaH n;a
sut;aH p;ayaH
am;qtasya D;Ama
p;atiH ;avyaH
;asiknIm B;UmanaH
;aDa D;ArayA
DIt;im br;ahmaZaH
y;aH jajY;e
asya zuSm;iZaH
G;aniGnat durit;A
r;aTaH B;uvanAni
hinvAn;aH indriy;am
;ati ;anDaH
varm;I iva
p;avamAnam maDuzc;utam
tridiv;e div;aH
s;a t;u
v;izvAni ary;aH
ray;im ;A
Bara zyenaBqta
;A ;iSaH
naH jy;otiSA
gaCati et;am
n;a s;qtvA
mAy;ayA nqc;akSasaH
;aramamAZaH ;ati
sot;AraH oZy:oH
pavasva vasuv;it
tozate ;A
te z;uSmaH
marmqjAn;aH Ay;uBiH
zr;avAMsi Anaz;uH
s;Anu pipy;uSI
srut;ayaH s;anti
vid;uH t;e
v;izvAni durit;A
D;anvan pr;ati
kratuv;it gAtuv;ittamaH
svAd;uH mitr;Aya
mitr;aH aryam;A
ant;ar zuBr;AvatA
;atyaviH vAy;oH
v;asUni vqkS;am
r;antA ;anu
tvA vAj;inam
pav;itre adr;uhaH
s;omaH ;aDi
n;aryaH aps;u
aruhaH sah;asraBqSwiH
g;AH ap;aH
dev;ahUtiBiH n;qBiH
p;ayaH g;oH
prIZ;an v;qSA
candr;AZi gqZat;e
indriy;aH r;asaH
v;izvAH ut;a
akSaran ;atyUrmiH
aB;i mIX;e
p;UrvAH acikradat
jy;eSWaH ugr;AZAm
j;AgqviH sut;aH
s;UrAH ;aZvam
p;avante m;adyam
maDuzc;utam ;asqgram
sIdati adB;iH
raTir;AsaH suh;astAH
c;akSase devam;AdanaH
B;ara candr;AZi
aB;i v;ahniH
s;Uram ;usrayaH
;azvam rAsi
;ayohatam y;onim
asqgran zravasy;avaH
punanti DarZas;im
v;acaH ;udyatam
suhastya samudr;e
dev;avItim ;indrAya
rAjati dyum;An
g;qDrAZAm sv;aDitiH
pasty:AnAm y;e
k;Avyam uz;anA
s;am s;UryeZa
j;ahat z;aryAZi
avy;ayam sam;ayA
ant;ar ;adreH
y;ABiH m;adAya
sacante pav;itram
gAhate m;qDaH
pr;a vandit;uH
;induH ;indraH
aB;i Im
svAyuD;aH sAsahv;An
pIt;aye viza
it;aH s;am
;ojasA pAh;i
sah;asrA bqhat;IH
sah;asraDAraH yAt
Ut;aye t;ABiH
naH mitr;aH
y;at ;anti
v;izaH ap;aH
n;a pakv;am
akSaran pr;a
z;uSmAsaH Irate
te kSarantu
aB;i v;izvAni
zrIZanti mat;iBiH
var;aH n;a
r;asam ;A
svaDvar;aH eS;a
z;qVge z;izAnaH
papraTe kr;Ixan
DUt;aH vicakSaZ;aH
;aCa samudr;am
daDanvir;e g;aBastyoH
aDvar;e p;avasva
vA pr;a
agn;eH janit;A
D;anasya div;aH
soma te
urv;Im g;avyUtim
n;a hiyAn;aH
;anDaH arSati
jan;ayan asiSyadat
pr;a hinvAn;aH
;A purusp;qham
baBro n;i
sat;aH ;anti
sp;qDaH v;izaH
pavasva puraet;A
DArayaH tat;am
krAZ;A s;inDUnAm
vizv;ataH p;ari
j;anAya yAt;ayan
pav;itre akSaran
;indo dev;apsarastamaH
asy;a ;it
t;am ahyan
;asya vrat;Ani
samudr;am n;a
iva dasm;aH
;avInAm ;anu
;induH paviSwa
v;Are Urm;iZA
usr;A veda
;indo p;avasva
tvA v;iprAH
tanvAn;AH yajY;am
v;iDarman vAj;I
s;aptayaH zrIZAn;AH
parvatAv;qDam m;aDvaH
rUp;am kqZute
v;ajram ca
D;anAya t;am
y;Amani-yAmani ;A
sIdasi ;indrAya
punAn;Aya pr;a
;A rakS;asam
p;avamAnaH ;aDi
mIXvaH punAn;aH
Imahe mahAgay;am
zat;am can;a
j;aVGanat p;avamAnasya
soma mah;An
zravasy;avaH s;omAsaH
p;ayasA aB;i
suhut;AdaH ;UDani
h;areH candr;AH
indray;uH m;adam
vidaH aB;i
v;Acam soma
pav;itreZa sav;ena
;adreH k;Ucit
sukr;atuH kav;iH
kqZute nirZ;ijam
vizv;aDA Baremahi
vAsayiSy;ase ;asya
v;AcaH ;ut
vicakSaZ;aH sapt;a
vyata y;adi
;adriBiH duh;anti
v;qSA pavasva
t;arturAZAH pr;a
hav;iSmAn ev;a
soma ;indraH
navante ev;a
m;arjyaH B;uvat
s;Uryasya divy;aH
vqSaB;aH viB;UvasuH
somaD;Anam ;A
kSit;ayaH h;aste
z;aryABiH n;a
r;odasoH vipray;antaH
Bay;am vind;ati
v;asAnaH d;aza
;ApaH aB;i
m;adaH rAjan
vA j;aneSu
tozase ray;im
devayat;Am ;asarji
pariSkqZv;anti DarZas;im
D;anaM-Danam ;aDi
v;AsasA h;ariH
gop;AH n;a
eti ;ati
p;ari soma
sicy;ate m;aDu
soma dyumn;I
;indo ;indreZa
soma naH
B;arAya s;am
d;asyoH agn;iH
apt;uram rajast;uram
aruhat sah;asraBqSwiH
;anu h;i
g;ayam Ar;e
indo eS;a
y;aH dUZ;AzaH
n;a v;arcase
aps;u h;otA
soma zr;avaH
zatas;AH BUrid;AvA
m;adam aB;i
ca DqSZ;uH
pavamAna s;UryaH
g;oBiH ;Avqtam
sut;aH nqm;AdanaH
mAy;ayA D;IrAH
vayoD;Am AVgUS;AZAm
dev;AH amatsata
niriZAn;aH v;i
sunvir;e y;e
;induH satrAj;it
v;asuttaye kratuv;it
Anaze aBiSwik;qt
up;asTe ;A
B;agam s;UrAH
vAy;unA sut;aH
ps;araH s;ukqtam
r;eBan mit;A
;A tv;am
d;evAH Datt;a
;oSaDIBiH parZ;eBiH
maG;avadByaH indo
y;aH D;ArayA
;aDi g;oSu
Atm;ani kariSy;an
r;ajaH s;a
n;a zoBate
sumaVg;alaH praty;aV
ca Dart;ari
aps;u duSw;aram
zUS;aH eti
n;i riZIte
vizanti uzat;IH
B;agaH ;A
y;aH sukr;atuH
saDam;Ade y;AH
n;a prav;atA
soma AK;um
;astqtaH eS;a
matsar;aH m;adaH
avIvazat g;AH
satrAj;it ;astqtaH
gavy;A sah;asrA
hv;arAMsi baBr;avaH
;aDi sn;uBiH
D;AmAni vizvav;it
naH harIZAm
As;adam dev;aH
paT;A pr;a
indo p;ari
samudr;At s;omaH
dev;AnAm janit;A
Gan;A iva
avy;ayam zyen;aH
dev;AsaH am;qtAya
im;e Asate
iva razm;ayaH
s;am ca
gahi y;at
av;aH div;aH
n;a vats;am
te dyumn;avat
;indrAya p;Atave
yaTA qD;ak
r;akSaH Bind;antaH
pAraya kSetrav;it
Danasp;qtam Az;um
divy;aH suparZ;aH
Urm;im div;aH
v;qSA t;am
sah;asraDAram duhate
v;i div;aH
BAn;uH zukr;eZa
;atyam iva
indra D;ArA
d;akSAya rAy;aH
n;a k;qtvyaH
kart;e avrat;An
y;e r;ajiSWAH
iva s;atvaBiH
pad;am aMz;uH
;aZvyA Diy;A
dev;EH zoBate
candr;AH asqkSata
;apyAH ant;ar
sah;asraDAram vqSaB;am
v;ajraH sahasras;AH
punAn;aH soma
arSati h;ariH
;A vAj;I
aB;i ;anUSata
har;itaH d;aza
p;avasva vqtrahantama
tripqSW;am v;qSaZam
v;aruZaH mAmahantAm
dev;IH ;upa
svarj;it abj;it
daDe r;ocamAnaH
c;AravaH br;ahma-brahma
;A s;am
t;anA sah;asrAZi
vanavat vanuSyat;aH
k;Avyena s;a
h;i ;asi
k;AmAH nikAm;AH
raGuy;AmA pav;itre
tur;Iyam D;Ama
h;ariH sqjAn;aH
v;arSiSWEH soma
;ava t;AH
ay;am v;izvAni
akt;aH g;oBiH
kr;Ixantam ;atyavim
triSw;uBaH s;am
asmin vAj;ini
n;AnADiyaH vasUy;avaH
h;anti z;atrum
ur;uDArA iva
v;asu ut;a
aB;i s;Uryasya
zukr;am jy;otiH
Im aB;i
naH pariSicy;amAnAH
s;Anavi punAn;aH
s;amitIH iyAn;aH
;indre s;omaH
v;i jajYe
jaW;are y;at
asazc;ataH ven;AH
v;qSA sut;aH
jy;otiH mand;anAH
;anti vA
yUy;am h;i
codaya ;A
c;AruH mitr;e
eSAm pratn;aH
;A qt;asya
Urm;A m;aDumantam
Dart;A div;aH
indrap;AtamaH y;am
kS;oH ;anIke
viza apaGn;an
prav;ataH Azata
s;am enam
saKy;Aya vqZIm;ahe
g;avyUtim m;ahi
aB;i sapt;a
et;e DAvanti
Gqtazc;utaH zvet;am
v;oXA suK;am
sut;aH vAvqDAn;Aya
p;ArTivA ;indo
v;izvAni c;etasA
r;AjA s;inDUnAm
naH ay;am
j;ayan ap;aH
Av;iH kqZoti
sah;asraDAraH asadat
r;asam tuYjanti
m;aDumAn Urm;iZA
ray;im stotr;e
tarati svay;ugvaBiH
saD;asTam ;A
Ayan B;avanti
y;aH mah;A
hinvanti vAj;inam
vanuSyate mat;I
z;atrUn priy;Am
asm;e aB;i
v;asavaH Diy;A
s;iSAsati s;omaH
soma s;ahaH
vrat;Ani bqh;at
vAj;inam up;asTe
azvav;it p;avasva
raTir;aH saty;azuSmaH
y;asya pqTiv;I
aB;i pavamAna
arSasi ;A
;arAvZaH g;aCan
;Asate eS;a
gir;A y;adi
hit;am ;ava
sAkam;ukSaH marjayanta
pqTiv;I ut;a
pqts;u vanv;an
n;iH iyAya
eSi m;aDumantam
mar;udByaH varivov;it
g;aCati asy;a
u sah;asraBarZasam
pIp;ayat Atm;A
vacan;AvantaH ;UDaBiH
kS;ipaH avyata
naH yuj;A
caSwe div;aH
aheSata et;e
v;i DAvati
im;e v;qSaZam
meD;ayA ahyan
vqtr;A jaG;Ana
Az;avaH ;indram
kradaH v;qSaBiH
sumn;e am;qtasya
y;asya vrat;e
v;i cinuyAma
cakSata kS;Am
D;ArA pavate
z;arma triv;arUTam
hit;AH n;a
vqSw;im ;A
hit;aH nady:aH
kav;iH ;indrAya
akSaran dev;An
madAnAm pate
vy:omani catv;Ari
pavamAna suSwut;im
im;e mah;I
n;a vizp;atiH
vicakSaZ;aH punAn;aH
v;asUnAm n;u
atarpayat ;ava
;aCa h;i
s;ahaH naH
dev;eSu y;azaH
s;aKA vidv;An
;adrisaMhatam priy;am
samIcIn;AsaH Asate
mar;utaH tv;am
vizv;avAraH draviZod;AH
asm;aByam tok;A
yantu h;arayaH
kSum;at v;Ajavat
k;anikradat kal;aze
azastih;A k;arat
arSa k;anikradat
devajan;AH pun;antu
dy;AvA k;Avyena
hinu zumB;amAnaH
B;uvanasya niMsate
mah;I im;am
Ayajy;avaH sumat;im
anuSvaD;am pavate
v;qSA h;ariH
v;Aram apAviSuH
;ati s;Uryam
pinvat ;akSitA
pinvase hinvAn;aH
aB;i Den;UH
aBy;arSan stot;qByaH
Buvat vqjany:asya
;AviTa ;indram
mAmqje tir;aH
vr;AtAH apasy;avaH
iva ;arvantaH
jAt;A sv:arSAtA
hqdaMs;aniH ;arSa
;iSam ca
p;ateH punAn;asya
p;ayasA cam;USu
varD;ayan sut;aH
am;qtam Gqtazc;utaH
matIn;Am s;omaH
dAz;uSe v;asu
y;ena tok;am
pUrvy;aH eS;a
stot;Aram Ut;aye
v;AjAn ;upa
naH v;asyasaH
p;atyO ;aDi
arSati tv;am
p;avate haryat;aH
aB;i g;AH
d;aDAti putr;aH
aB;i s;omam
h;arizcandraH mar;udgaZaH
mqj;anti tvA
t;am Im
punAn;AsaH camUS;adaH
tat;am p;ari
indo B;uvaneSu
viSw;apam svaD;A
vqtr;am amitr;iyam
p;avamAnasya mar;utaH
taviSyate vim;AnaH
uS;asaH p;qzniH
sp;azaH n;a
ap;asaH y;aTA
pavasva ;aDi
samudr;am ;ut
p;avasva devav;IH
mqg;AZAm zyen;aH
mad;intamaH ;Urjam
y;aH v;izvAni
anavady;aH riz;AdAH
y;e jujuS;uH
j;enyam vipazc;itam
avac;Akazat mqg;aH
r;aTaH ;agman
punAn;aH ;induH
Az;uH qt;asya
tara kav;iH
mAt;araH z;izum
cit p;azyamAnAsaH
van;uSA bqh;antaH
D;ArA ;ati
;indram varDanti
arSasi jah;i
zekuH Dar;uZeSu
hiraZyapAv;AH paz;um
;A ratnaD;AH
avy;ayI z;uciH
;indram soma
vAjas;AH ut;a
mitr;aH gaCantu
niSkqt;am eS;a
pqSW;e v;i
yAt;ayan ;iSaH
soma mIXvaH
arSa aB;i
yuva ;A
;arpitaH sv:ar
p;Ajase ap;aH
suparZ;am upapaptiv;AMsam
pav;itreBiH p;avamAnAH
y;aH dev;An
;indum indra
DAs;iH uttam;aH
t;uByam pavate
k;artave ay;am
senAn;IH z;UraH
pipize yat;aH
p;Ati dev;AnAm
can;a hr;utaH
s;omAsaH akSaran
aB;i vIt;im
paz;um Asu
d;akSAya v;izve
n;a y;oSAm
zr;avasA tat;ardiTa
;arUrucat v;i
citr;am ukTy:am
naH ;indo
D;ArayA mqjy;amAnaH
s;Idan ;indrasya
;Ayuni jAt;am
Den;avaH daDanvir;e
qt;ena dev;An
draviZov;it punAn;aH
p;avamAna mahitvan;A
;aVgiroByaH avqZoH
sqjAn;aH ;atyaH
s;omaH p;ari
;indo ruc;A
zumB;amAnaH qtAy;uBiH
citr;aH ;avyayAni
s;am I
v;izvA nahuSy:AZi
apinvaH ark;EH
pavasva h;iraZyavat
dev;eByaH saDam;AdyaH
kSap;A p;ariSkqtaH
y;onim Gqt;avantam
sv;am ;A
gotr;am ;aVgiroByaH
ay;am pUS;A
s;omAH asqkSata
suparZ;AH m;aDumantaH
paviSwa c;AruH
tv;am v;ipraH
atr;iZaH bqh;at
Urm;A v;i
pavasva p;uraMDI
soma y;oSA
DIj;avanam raTeSW;Am
g;arBaH n;ihitaH
naH bAD;At
D;anyAya Danvasi
yuj;aH vAc;aH
zr;avaH ;aTa
asm;e v;asUni
p;avyayA g;aBastipUtaH
;Urjam aB;i
;avyaH v;AreBiH
matsar;am ;avyaH
Ayat;I ;asya
sapt;a d;izaH
DarZas;iH sadaH
aB;i vAsaya
;indrasya s;omam
arSa bqhanmate
ca dUrak;e
bqhat;IH rev;atIH
p;avamAnasya Urm;ayaH
rirIhi naH
ray;iH v;i
s;Uryam n;a
DIyate v;iH
;A aruhaH
soma rocan;A
s;omaH mat;iBiH
pr;a yaMsat
ay;Asam ;azvam
tv;Am ;aCa
D;ArA sut;asya
amAdiSuH dev;eByaH
;indrasya pIt;aye
pavasva divy;Aya
ca y;asya
s;ahAvAn j;etA
d;IDitim v;izvA
k;am cit
;upAvasuH p;avamAna
D;ArayA dev;AsaH
m;atsi mitr;Av;aruZA
v;AryA z;UraH
;A s;a
v;aruZaH saj;oSasaH
matIn;Am pratn;AH
vrat;Ani pAn;aH
gr;AvZA tunn;aH
r;AjA vEvasvat;aH
;indram aB;i
pUy;amAnaH tv;ayA
k;armAZi cakr;uH
s;a pavasva
kav;iH gIrB;iH
soma ps;arase
r;AjA n;a
y;AmeBiH Azata
h;arI r;AjA
v;qTA p;Ajase
dev;ajAtAH asqgran
g;arBaH ;avqZIta
;AyuH prAt;ar
nirZ;ijam daDe
p;ayaH duhanti
vqtrah;A v;qSA
syandate v;qSA
mahat;e D;anAya
devy:A ca
mat;I sqj;at
puruv;AraH adB;iH
pav;itravantaH akSaran
tisr;aH dev;IH
van;anAH atiSWipat
aBipr;iyaH t;uByam
B;UrZaye v;qSan
p;avamAnaH v;i
;arvate kqZv;antaH
z;azvataH v;izvasya
DIt;ayaH dev;AnAm
;ojiSWaH t;am
zravasy;avaH ;aCa
punAn;AH ;indram
pavasva suvit;Aya
;indum pr;a
s;a mqjy;amAnaH
tv;Am mqjanti
preS;A hem;anA
pavate D;Ama
mAt;araH marmqjy;ante
s;Uryam dqz;aye
z;izAnaH arSati
vizv;Ayum ;A
mAt;uH ;aDi
jaW;areSu ;A
aDvar;am barh;iSmAn
;A t;ava
sya manIS;Am
t;e pratn;AsaH
ukTy:am mah;aH
c;anohitaH n;AmAni
prav;ataH ;A
m;aDumantam ;adriBiH
kqZv;an ap;aH
kS;ipaH ;indrAya
priy;am pit;A
punAn;asya c;etasA
aB;i arSasi
v;asu t;at
divy;asya r;etasaH
manIS;iZam p;Antam
divy;Aya j;anmane
tigm;AyuDaH kSipr;aDanvA
y;aH it;OutiH
prAc;Inam ;ojasA
bqhat;I mah;I
asi ;azvaH
;it zekuH
cakradaH v;ane
;ava cakradaH
asqkSata marmqjAn;AsaH
d;aDAnaH indriy;am
v;izve kAr;avaH
im;A v;izvA
n;a kany:A
m;aDvaH r;asam
vAy;uBiH ;A
h;i kam
s;omam g;AvaH
dr;aviZam azn;avAma
y;oSaZAm var;aH
vicakSaZ;aH h;ariH
Irate s;omam
;A pyAyasva
duhit;A ;A
y;A naH
srava parj;anyavqdDam
h;arim hinota
punAn;Aya veD;ase
dyumn;e uttam;e
Im v;izvA
Im arSanti
azvav;it g;omat
manIS;iZaH ;indrasya
p;qzane vA
p;ari v;izvA
naH p;Urve
dyumn;Ani indo
z;atrUn ur;ugavyUtiH
p;avamAna svADy:aH
aps;u ant;ar
;arAtayaH ary;aH
s;am usr;iyABiH
ca ;ati
cit z;UrataraH
saty;Am Az;iram
pUrv;IH uS;asaH
daz;aBiH BAri
eS;a gavy;uH
pit;araH soma
p;ari h;i
;indo v;izvAn
;amartyAH sasqv;AMsaH
priy;A div;aH
y;azaH n;a
dev;AnAm uB;ayasya
hinota vAj;inam
sIdasi aB;i
avasyavaH v;ipram
mitr;aH dakS;AyyaH
kqz;AnoH ;astuH
sadanAs;ade t;e
n;qBiH s;am
s;omaH punAn;aH
div;aH ;iyarti
m;aDvA pqcAn;aH
citr;am n;a
raT;IH iva
arAvIt ;aDi
B;avan eS;a
;aDi Ay;avaH
Irate s;inDoH
ur;u ant;arikSam
naH dev;eBiH
pqtanyat;aH y;A
saDam;AdyaH ;indo
te m;adaH
;iSam stot;qByaH
;A vqZImahe
soma jAgqhi
asya t;am
Dar;uZe n;iSattAH
;Avqtam tqt;Iye
g;AH viveda
pit;uH n;a
kal;aze akSarat
kS;ayam suv;Iram
h;i soma
suv;IraH aBizastip;AH
v;asvaH ;utsam
sut;aH mitr;Aya
v;Acam v;adan
p;anyase j;anAya
up;asTe v;ane
vIt;I p;ari
v;acaH ;apa
puruvrat;aH jajYAn;aH
p;ari v;Aje
;indram v;qSA
D;anva pUy;amAnaH
p;ayasA p;invamAnaH
zaMg;ayIm jIr;adAnum
;indo sah;asraBarZasam
h;arim hinv;anti
v;qSA v;anam
tok;Aya vAj;inaH
baDir;AH ahAsata
j;anInAm ;upa
asadat Ap;qCyam
arSa g;uhyam
pavamAna am;qte
kS;ipaH mqjanti
riZIte asya
goS;AH indo
maMh;anA eS;a
d;aBAya sukr;atuH
s;omaH ajyate
ut;a vAy;unA
s;aKAyaH durm;arSam
kav;iH viDart;ari
;A adaDuH
v;iH y;onA
y;AH zukr;am
arSati ant;arikSeZa
uB;e nqc;akSAH
d;ivA h;ariH
priy;am Az;uH
s;ugaBastayaH n;araH
j;Am siMh;am
tvA zat;am
priy;A cit
p;ari priy;A
g;aCantaH ;indavaH
;indrasya indo
B;arAya dev;EH
razm;ayaH Druv;asya
t;uBya im;A
pav;itram ;ati
zyen;aH y;at
cam;USu ;A
eSi pavamAna
apasy;uvaH ;indrasya
ray;im sah;asravarcasam
kavIy;an vraj;am
sumat;im vizv;avArAH
iva suvrat;aH
svan;aH p;avamAnasya
v;ajrabAhum aB;i
siMh;aH n;a
dy;avi DarZas;im
vqta t;at
vAy;ave v;ipravIraH
zruSw;I jAt;AsaH
div;aH Dar;uZaH
avIvipan m;aDoH
eS;A ;A
div;aH y;aH
Az;avaH ;ati
cit t;at
arSati p;atiH
r;asam te
ev;a am;qtAya
asm;e suv;Iram
p;avamAnasya zuSm;iZaH
maG;avadByaH Druv;am
akramIt ;iSaH
;indavaH aB;i
kqZv;antaH v;izvam
asm;An samary;e
s;arat jAr;aH
n;i sIdati
;indo ray;im
;ati parSi
sy;a suvAn;aH
codaya div;aH
san;aye D;anAnAm
saD;asTam aznuSe
sv;AdiSWam draps;am
vidy;utA pavate
;A uz;antam
yanti saMy;ataH
;indo ;indraH
Avar priy;A
soma rAjan
mandr;aH svarv;it
y;oSA jAr;am
reB;aH n;a
jIv;ase gov;it
san;ema v;Ajapastyam
n;a pipye
;anDasaH n;i
s;am jAm;iBiH
n;a v;Ajam
d;admahe t;arat
ay;am dev;eByaH
arSa ;indrAya
;A jAm;iH
;aBarat parAv;ataH
;induH ;arvAn
ruj;a y;aH
yat;am sunv;anti
zavasaH pate
t;amAMsi j;aVGanat
suparZ;aH ;A
tv;am s;Urye
indo ;A
zukr;aH pavasva
v;arivaH g;ave
gqZAn;aH jam;adagninA
p;avamAnasya razm;ayaH
;indavaH m;aDumantaH
;arAvA qB;uH
v;izvasya asi
p;ayoBiH ;At
;A g;aBastyoH
iS;aH p;atim
svAyuDa ih;a
kS;Am s;omaH
D;armaZi kS;oH
p;avamAnAH div;aH
yanti jaW;aram
;upa naH
;Aryam apaGn;antaH
agn;iH ;indraH
v;i zr;avAMsi
cit m;aMhIyAn
yAti ;indum
sut;aH pavate
m;Am am;qtam
y;aTA hit;aH
asya santu
BIm;aH vqSaB;aH
hit;am asm;e
m;adaH mat;iBiH
codaya d;Atave
;ojiSWaH aDvar;e
g;oSu dIDaram
m;ahi z;arma
s;am mAt;qBiH
manIS;iZaH s;am
sut;asya DAvati
;ojasA barh;iH
Ad;ize zukr;AH
tujat;A vaD;ena
n;a g;AvaH
punAn;aH v;Aram
any;A B;uvanAni
suS;Ava s;omam
v;Ajam arSa
pavasva v;asvaH
;avyam arSasi
arSanti raGuj;AH
v;qSaZam DIB;iH
;indavaH vqSw;ayaH
D;ArayA y;ujam
ant;ar Dar;uZe
;agre mahIy;uvaH
ant;arikSyA p;avamAnasya
;ati meSy:aH
naH m;qDaH
vasuv;idam aB;i
p;avamAnaH manIS;I
;aDi sv;ani
ihi punAn;aH
m;adaH vAy;um
Bara suSvAZ;aH
dev;aH ;A
v;iprAsaH amadan
zacIvaH t;ava
;A huve
duhate nqc;akSasaH
tvA nady:aH
v;Acam punanti
v;asUni DAraya
zukr;am duduhre
jan;aya p;uraMDim
;asAvi mitr;aH
vidAn;AH asya
div;aH Dart;A
ajyate h;ariH
;iyarti vagn;um
v;izve im;e
iva goS;AH
m;aDumantaH ;indavaH
D;armaZA p;avamAna
g;iraH s;omam
kav;iH s;inDoH
v;i ;akSarat
pun;Ata dakSas;ADanam
ajEH aDvar;e
;arSat mitr;asya
y;ena zr;avAMsi
;AhitaH ;A
stan;ayan ;aDi
aBizastip;AH B;uvanasya
viv;asvataH mqj;anti
m;adAya pun;anti
v;qSaZam yantu
gov;it azvav;it
ihi s;Uryasya
maG;avA maG;avadByaH
s;arasvatI uB;e
naraH p;avamAnAya
bqh;at y;azaH
v;Ajasya Bajate
mah;IH ;iSaH
ray;im ;iSam
D;Ama k;im
ay;am B;arAya
eS;a punAn;aH
adr;uhaH y;AH
jAr;aH n;a
aByundat;aH saKitv;am
kr;atum ;apa
;induH ;avye
c;aranti vidy;utaH
;A av;Ahan
naH pUS;A
r;eBan pav;itram
aB;i s;omAsaH
;akSitam p;AjaH
naH t;am
srava ;apa
putr;aH pitr;oH
samudr;AsaH n;a
n;a nikt;aH
s;am apqkta
san;adrayiH B;arat
;aMhasaH pr;a
dv;izavasam pun;Ata
anUSata st;uBaH
mqj;anti s;inDumAtaram
DAvasi s;UraH
r;ase v;izve
D;ArayA t;anA
asqkSata s;omAH
sy;a p;ari
;ataptatanUH n;a
saniSy;an ayAsIt
p;atim vAc;aH
;arvataH v;i
qt;asya yAti
aMz;oH p;ayasA
draps;aH ;AyuDAni
B;uvanA aB;i
pr;a y;e
v;Ajam jeSi
;etazam p;avamAnaH
ty;at paZIn;Am
sut;AH ;aCa
vajr;iZam ;indram
D;ArAH m;aDumatIH
aDvasm;aBiH s;UraH
r;ADaH ;aCa
p;avamAnaH avy;aye
DIyate mat;iH
aruS;aH jan;ayan
avy;aye v;izvAH
p;avasva vizvacarSaZe
gir;iSu kS;ayam
sqjyate zuSm;I
pavamAna n;i
manIS;iZaH r;AjAnam
nimn;am aB;i
priy;aH sah;asraDAraH
razm;iBiH daz;aBiH
p;ari v;Are
pavasva m;aDumAn
r;odasI im;A
pavasva pUy;amAnaH
vasat;O iva
;anu prav;ataH
saKy;am juSAZ;aH
m;aDumattamAH aB;i
sAk;am m;adena
dviS;aH tar;aDyE
san;im meD;Am
IzAn;am vIt;irADasam
akSarat s;omaH
m;aDvaH pavasva
piz;aVgam bahul;am
pr;a Avat
kqZute h;ariH
;induH vicakSaZ;aH
sv;AdiSWayA m;adiSWayA
kr;Ixan p;avamAnaH
hinvAn;aH m;AnuSA
s;omaH asm;aByam
div;aH pavate
s;omasya D;ArA
syAma pr;a
dyumn;am pqTivy;AH
m;atsi dev;An
Barat ;aDa
Az;uH arSa
D;iyam manoy;ujam
drAp;im amuYcaTAH
n;a citr;aH
Anand;AH ca
mar;udgaZaH p;avamAnaH
vAjay;uH dev;aH
r;aTam n;a
raT;ItamaH zuBr;eBiH
v;ahnim mar;utaH
yat;aH p;ari
yat;IH punAn;AH
aruS;aH s;iSAsati
d;akSiZAvate dev;Aya
h;ariH pavasva
;asat te
aB;i mAt;araH
priy;aH mqjyate
svadit;am mAtar;izvanA
s;oma divy;Ani
iva mAt;qBiH
ray;im ;azvapastyam
soma nqm;AdanaH
rAy;e akramuH
soma m;aDumAn
kal;aze zat;ayAmnA
BAri B;Uma
parZ;inaH n;ABA
ut;a id;am
rAjasi y;e
ajir;azociSaH p;avamAnaH
v;ane s;adma
v;qSA ;indrasya
pUS;A p;avamAnaH
mit;A iva
d;ame parAv;ataH
vqSay;uH k;anikradat
agr;uvaH ;avye
pr;ati dev;An
dyumn;avat p;ayaH
s;aH arSa
r;ajaH t;antum
svAyuDa s;oma
sud;akSaH viSwamB;aH
maDuzc;utaH ;asqgram
j;AH h;arim
ArjIk;At soma
jAt;aH zriy;e
p;avamAna p;avase
p;ayaH pav;itre
dUty:am tv;am
arSasi g;omataH
z;izuH vAvazAn;aH
v;ajraH v;apuSaH
aB;i naH
avasy;avaH v;qSA
eS;a vAj;I
suvAn;aH avy;ayam
;indave aB;i
ahy:aH n;a
;arZaH v;i
vayoD;AH amitrah;A
y;at ;adriBiH
sut;aH pUyate
;aganma b;iBrataH
y;at vAj;I
;A v;izvA
y;at qt;EH
;iSam ;Urjam
dev;AnAm vIt;im
aDanviSuH ;ApaH
Diy;A hit;aH
p;ayaH upast;ire
mar;utaH vAy;uH
b;qhasp;ate rav;aTena
vasur;ucaH divy;AH
tatniSe g;avyam
nirZ;ijam parj;anyaH
v;qSagaZAH ayAsuH
t;anA ;adriBiH
Azata hav;iH
;akSitam ;indum
n;a D;ArA
manoy;ujam sqj;a
m;adaH gir;A
pavasva mah;Im
apIcy:am mad;intamaH
azv;inam B;ara
p;ari pratn;At
zazramuH ;iyakSantaH
p;avasva m;aDumattamaH
d;aDAnaH kav;iH
dyumn;I suDAr;aH
naH ay;A
soma tiSWantu
sUr;ayaH t;am
kqZv;an div;aH
;indo stotr;e
ut;a dy;Am
asm;aByam aB;itaH
saMy;atam v;qSA
naH citr;am
vAj;inam marj;ayantaH
yat;aH n;qBiH
grAB;am gqBZIta
;ati hv;arAMsi
ps;arase indrap;AnaH
k;etam Ad;ize
vicakSaZ;aH ;avyaH
aMz;uH y;avena
vadanti vAZ;am
te v;aruZasya
gov;it pavasva
sv;adasva ;indrAya
suSaMs;adam s;omam
iva ;it
saMtan;im eSi
B;UrZayaH pad;e-pade
cit ev;a
d;Evyam n;aBaH
acikradat trit;asya
;induH dev;eSu
p;ayasA Im
eti pqTiv;Im
invasi ray;im
p;avasva carSaZIs;ahe
qt;uBiH kave
g;oBiH akSAr
srava n;Qn
B;ava soma
s;am suSwut;I
eS;a d;ivam
in;u dv;eSAMsi
v;itatAni eSi
tv;am ty;at
p;ayaH t;ava
B;ava v;Ajasya
devav;ItamaH asm;aByam
;arAvIt aMz;uH
deva z;azvate
s;omam yanti
vipany;uvaH panasy;uvaH
akramuH hinvAn;AsaH
Den;UH vAzr;aH
suSvAZ;am dev;avItaye
s;Uryasya priy;am
vivyacuH y;am
tir;aH r;ajaH
sv;asAraH d;aza
dev;aH vip;A
mAt;arA z;uciH
n;a nikt;am
;indraH te
z;UraH r;aTeBiH
ajinvat adr;uhaH
kr;atuBiH yatAn;aH
sah;asravalzam h;aritam
jAt;am rihanti
k;ozam arSati
yahv;aH ;aDi
pav;itram ;indrAya
y;onim k;anikradat
dev;eSu ;A
m;aDu samIcIn;AH
y;e duHS;ahAsaH
am;At ;astam
dev;aH raTaryati
n;a mAt;qBiH
samudr;am p;avamAnaH
p;atiH rayIZ;Am
y;onO s;Idan
h;otAraH sapt;ajAmayaH
ant;ar p;azyan
nqc;akSasam s;omam
s;Anavi svAyuD;asya
v;AtaH n;a
suSwut;I n;asate
;avasA p;AntaH
n;qBiH h;ariH
pUy;amAnaH s;omaH
adB;iH v;qSA
y;aH s;omaH
stot;qByaH ;A
divy;AH suparZ;AH
n;a r;etaH
pakv;am DUnavat
gAhate r;AjA
sumeD;AH mUrD;Anam
vAy;ave kqD;i
s;UryaH iva
s;adAMsi punAn;aH
UrDv;A navanta
v;izvAn dev;An
;agne p;avasva
mar;udByaH s;omAH
t;am u
;avAvazanta DIt;ayaH
s;oma jah;i
samudr;e v;Acam
sumqxIk;aH anavady;aH
dazasyati Av;iH
Dar;uZam vAj;I
kS;ipaH mqj;anti
b;iBratam v;qSA
sut;asya rocate
devAv;IH pary;akSarat
arSa gqZAn;aH
DIt;iBiH hit;aH
v;AsaH qt;asya
;indram te
y;ena v;iprAsaH
dev;AH Adity;AH
im;A B;uvanA
punAn;aH ;ati
ay;A pavasva
p;avamAnaH ;adAByaH
suv;Iram Danvantu
viBvAs;aham p;ari
h;ariH v;AjAya
sav;ena ca
divy;asya kavy;EH
kav;iH aBavaH
pUy;amAnaH ;aTa
iva pazum;Anti
v;ane UrDv;A
Ay;avaH pracakrAZ;am
soma maKasy;uvam
Ut;iBiH aB;i
asqkSata s;Uryasya
v;i vrat;Ani
puruhUt;aH j;anAnAm
hav;iSSu v;andyaH
tvA sut;eSu
matsar;am ;A
;indraH n;a
triMz;atam t;anA
y;adi nirZ;ijam
Druv;AH Gqt;e
v;AreSu siYcata
r;ucaH p;avamAnasya
srava sut;aH
;indrasya iva
v;AcaH maKasy;uvaH
v;asUni h;astayoH
pr;a dAnud;aH
priy;am tr;IZi
maDyam;am yuva
m;artyeBiH marmqjAn;aH
ray;im m;imIte
sAhv;AMsaH d;asyum
pr;a pavamAna
p;avamAnaH qt;am
m;adAya y;ujyAya
avyata veD;AH
Ad;idezati zat;am
pUyase tv;Am
samudr;am ukTy:am
;asarji skamB;aH
ajyate uB;e
p;ari skqZvanti
j;animAni dyum;attamaH
manIS;iBiH ;indrasya
s;uSwutaH kav;iBiH
;arAtIH v;arivaH
praTam;AH aBizr;iyaH
punAn;aH s;adaH
rocan;e div;aH
;atyaH syandate
viza pr;a
vqjany:asya r;AjA
vizv;ataH ;A
;indram codaya
t;am tuviSv;aZi
indra t;ava
;asi BAn;unA
et;e s;omAH
v;qSA iva
sam;atsu ;anapacyutA
kSetrav;it h;i
;indavaH madacy;utaH
;iSaH kav;iH
;aDi asTAt
c;Arum aDvar;am
t;akSA riSw;am
sv:AtataH ;ApUrZaH
;aviH asya
s;UryaH ;induH
;indoH p;avamAnasya
sapt;a nUSata
pram;e s;acA
nahuSy:AZi jAt;A
mat;iBiH vicakSaZa
g;arBam ;aditeH
sah;asrA nEgut;aH
r;avam ;anu
pavase m;qDaH
kav;iH k;Avyena
;ava ;ajuSwAn
h;i s;aH
parAv;ati v;iprasya
D;iyaH h;arim
Im ;azvam
avIvazan k;ASWAm
r;AjA pav;itraraTaH
aB;i priy;A
tok;Aya naH
apAr;e r;ajasI
qt;am qt;Aya
m;ahi s;adma
;indavaH svarv;idaH
m;anasaH v;enataH
apasy;uBiH ;induH
;apa am;itrAn
;A BandanAyat;aH
bqh;antaH t;An
B;artave naH
DIt;ayaH svAyuD;am
yajY;am ;A
;ayukta s;UraH
yaTA pav;itre
ut;a pr;a
paT;aH p;avamAnAsaH
s;am Adity;eBiH
j;uSwaH adr;uhe
vAj;I pavate
matIn;Am vizv;adevaH
asaraH v;Ajam
sut;aH s;omaH
ady;a naH
t;qSZA s;am
v;ahniH paTy:ABiH
g;iraH te
r;aTaH d;EvyaH
;acikradat kal;aze
Av;qtA samIcIn;e
sIdati paz;O
baBr;avaH zukr;AH
soma ;anDasA
n;qBiH yemAn;aH
tok;asya sAt;A
gir;A im;e
;A darSi
tv;am nqc;akSAH
qtadyumna saty;am
m;anmanA dev;aH
pIt;aye punAn;aH
svast;aye saMjagmAn;aH
azastih;A vqj;anam
t;An te
;aDi zrit;aH
darzat;aH s;am
pItv;A vqSaB;aH
arSa ;indrasya
DAvasi s;a
matsar;aH indrap;AnaH
t;AH asazc;ataH
pqtany;Un s;eDan
vAraZ;am m;aDu
pr;a yuj;aH
durit;A pur;u
;usrayaH sv;asAraH
punItana m;aDO
v;Aram avy;ayam
t;am dur;oSam
dUt;am n;a
mqjAn;aH aps;u
Az;uBiH g;aCan
niSkqt;am mah;aH
har;itaH suparZy:aH
pazum;at h;iraZyavat
aB;i dUty:am
ap;aH vasiSwa
maDuzc;utam s;omaH
m;adAH arSanti
te soma
y;atra dev;AH
s;omaH p;atiH
;induH mah;at
m;adaH s;omaH
tasT;atuH p;ari
;ut iyarti
sah;a g;aCati
vIr;avat v;Ajam
svaD;ayA pinvate
Den;avaH dev;asya
ty;am madacy;utam
vidAn;aH ;AyuDA
asqkSata r;eBan
v;izvA v;asUni
jaBriSe pr;ati
z;uSmeZa bADate
m;adaH p;avamAna
Imahe s;aMvqktaDqSZum
dakSas;ADanam y;aTA
;indavaH mah;e
pr;a D;ArAH
;avyaH v;Aram
ay;A pav;A
zukr;eZa zoc;iSA
y;aH usr;iyAH
;A v;astrAZi
v;asUni p;ArTivA
pr;ayasvantaH cam;U
;aDi ant;arikSeZa
supraj;AH ;iti
pUrvy;aH pavate
y;aH asya
sut;asya m;aDvaH
cam;USu s;apanti
u pqTivy;AH
hiyAn;aH ;Apat
pavasva p;ari
viza vqSw;im
;indo san;itram
ca z;aMsam
niSkqt;am krAZ;A
prAt;ar makS;u
DIB;iH asvaran
v;arZam maDuzc;utam
pavasva deva
naH sah;asrApsAH
v;AjasAtaye s;omAH
vqZIm;ahe saKy;Aya
avIvipat vAc;aH
s;acamAnaH Urm;iZA
s;omaH vir;Ajam
y;an iva
matsar;aH m;adAya
sicyase n;are
D;ArA ut;a
sIdasi ;utsaH
;azvAH h;arayaH
m;aDujihvAH asazc;ataH
sah;asrAZi dadmahe
ucCvAs;e pat;ayantam
ruv;ati BIm;aH
kqZv;an dr;aviZAni
;AyuDA tigm;Ani
;acikradat v;qSA
v;i v;Aram
dev;eByaH tvA
r;asAH punAn;aH
matsar;aH v;izvA
prad;izaH v;iDarmaZi
soma puSyasi
dev;AnAm j;animAni
mAmahantAm ;aditiH
mumucm;ahe ;A
sut;aH ;indrAya
sah;a m;A
pqTivy;AH ;qSiH
svara D;anva
vqZAn;aH pavate
mand;I m;adAya
asm;at ;A
m;udaH pram;udaH
v;arZam ;aDi
tuYj;anti B;UrZayaH
pavate k;qtvyaH
u priy;aH
n;a Bur;ijoH
kr;iviH dev;IH
;A tiSWati
dr;oZAni Gqt;avAnti
vavr;im har;itaH
v;izvam sv:ar
n;Ama y;ena
;A duhe
naH s;Uryam
arSasi pr;a
dev;avItaye ;atyAsaH
Gqt;am p;ayaH
mqYjata aB;i
p;ari sy;a
adr;uhaH priy;am
vIray;uH zavasaH
te kave
s;UryaH ;adriBiH
hv;arAMsi DAvati
p;avamAnaH azastih;A
sut;AH ;indrAya
n;aBaH duhyate
;A v;asu
IVKaya vaD;EH
sud;uGAH suDAr;AH
aB;i mitr;Av;aruZA
v;ipram DIt;iBiH
n;a s;avanAni
devav;ItamaH t;am
p;avasva vqSw;im
g;AvaH aB;i
s;argAH sqSw;AH
D;ArABiH akSAr
soma varD;ayan
p;ari yAsi
D;anAni vizv;aDA
s;avanAni vivyacuH
mah;e sah;asracakSase
madacy;utam sah;asraDAram
tvA pqtany;ati
p;avasva ;oSaDIByaH
s;Idan v;anasya
Atm;A yajY;asya
nid;aH y;atra
v;asave s;u
hit;aH hiyAn;aH
nid;aH et;e
avy;ayam punAn;aH
r;AjAnaH n;a
vid;e asy;a
m;andamAnaH svAyuDa
;iyakSantaH paT;aH
pav;itram aByundat;aH
zrav;Ayyam y;aH
aB;i suvAn;AsaH
br;ahmaZA hare
;aviDat m;anaH
arcAma dev;An
sabard;uGaH hinvAn;aH
s;ana meD;Am
r;asaH m;adaH
raTaj;it hiraZyaj;it
;arUrucat uS;asaH
n;a sqSw;aH
;indrasya soma
m;arjyam DIB;iH
kr;Ixan p;ari
oZy:oH p;avamAna
adB;iH m;aryaH
bahul;am purusp;qham
;ajIjanaH h;i
p;ayaH qt;asya
divy;Ani m;armqzat
;indavaH asm;An
D;ArayA dyum;antam
Im qZv;anti
r;oma pavate
varS;ayan dy;Am
yAti ;aCa
indra te
v;izvA dev;eSu
ap;aH varS;ayan
garBa zqZuh;i
;aviBiH p;ari
ket;um kqZv;an
eS;a tunn;aH
mah;aH z;ikSa
p;Antam ;A
pIy;USaH saty;e
maDuzc;utam ;A
;A s;inDoH
s;Adane s;inDoH
haryat;aH t;am
maMh;anA p;ari
viD;Are z;akmanA
Ir;ayan apasy;uBiH
ca maMhate
;apa durg;ahAZi
kave mahimn;e
sicyate kr;andan
mat;ayaH v;AcaH
;aTarvAZaH azizrayuH
v;izvAni mandr;aH
s;arAMsi DAvati
p;ari raGuy;AmA
dev;eBiH pavamAna
suSvAZ;aH dev;avItaye
d;avidyutatyA ruc;A
vizv;avArAH h;otAraH
Barat v;izvasmE
;A y;ayoH
j;uSwam p;atim
drAvayitn;avaH matsar;AsaH
vidy;utaH div;i
asya y;ojanam
g;AvaH vats;am
n;a d;adqzAnaH
B;uvanAni v;izvA
vivakti m;aryaH
zat;AtmAnam vivAsasi
adaDuH ;indrAya
iva p;avamAnaH
DIt;iBiH hit;am
jAgqhi y;aTA
s;adA asaraH
aznute zqt;AsaH
naH sahasr;iZam
naH ukTy:aH
yajY;aH r;AjYaH
mah;I apAr;e
iva s;inDavaH
b;anDUn im;An
vAjay;uH mAyAv;inaH
pad;A s;omaH
r;aTe n;a
svarv;idaH ay;am
soma m;qDaH
p;ayasA iva
svADy:aH ;A
n;qBiH punAn;aH
asqkSata pav;itram
druh;aH rakS;asaH
jiGnate z;UraH
v;arivaH kqDi
maMhay;adrayiH ;ut
mat;iH vats;aH
;arAtIH p;ayaH
viDAt;A B;agaH
Urm;iZA div;aH
c;Aru n;Ama
s;Urye naH
g;qDrAH hinv;anti
y;uvAnam ;A
saDry:ak r;akSa
n;a mahiS;aH
sut;AsaH m;aDumattamAH
;At Im
indo s;am
cara s;u
z;izAnaH mahiS;aH
tvA Dart;Aram
;A n;Ake
im;e s;aKAyaH
tv;am sut;aH
y;aH UrDv;aH
n;aktoS;AsA n;a
naH asy;a
s;omam namasya
sqjAn;aH m;aryaH
asi v;qSA
punAn;aH vahne
y;ena n;avagvaH
triD;AtuBiH ;aruSIBiH
punAn;aH maKasy;ase
vqSaB;am d;ivaH
soma rAraZa
purusp;qham p;avasva
p;avamAnaH ;indraH
vAy;uH azv;inA
priy;aH kavIn;Am
jahi ;asya
p;atiH j;anInAm
pipye ;arZasA
s;ana d;akSam
;A manIS;iZam
b;iBrat arSasi
vAj;ayan ap;aH
Darm;A Buvat
yUy;am vay;am
s;am etu
ev;a r;AjA
yat;e h;ariH
ut;a im;Am
dAz;uSe ;indo
hinve parAv;ati
priy;aH tv;am
vIr;avat s;ana
;asarji kal;azAn
t;u D;anam
s;anemi kqD;i
D;ane hit;e
pavamAna dyumn;Ani
m;adena gaCati
DarZas;iH aB;i
p;avamAnaH Urm;im
m;adAya ev;a
j;anima n;emam
p;avamAnasya soma
vqSw;eH iva
mah;IH asm;aByam
;A DAvata
duduhre ;ahrayaH
;indrAya tozase
aruS;aH div;aH
iva s;aKye
g;AH aB;i
qt;ena y;aH
manIS;iBiH manIS;iBiH
m;A te
tvA mah;IH
pit;uH eti
s;a pUt;am
sIdati aB;i
tr;ayaH ekAdaz;AsaH
d;oDuvat z;izIte
h;arayaH zruSw;I
v;izvam ;A
aMz;um p;avamAnaH
akSAr sah;asraDAraH
n;a nimn;am
junIm;asi tir;aH
tv;am vavqS;e
dAv;ane v;asUnAm
Ir;ayan eSi
mayoB;uvam v;ahnim
;indo sUkt;Aya
s;omaH g;avye
naH pav;itreZa
DAvati ;agre
sah;asrotiH zat;AmaGaH
asiSyadat ap;aH
arSasi san;advAjaH
tv;am v;izvasya
sapr;aTaH div;aH
aB;i v;iprAH
ur;u jr;ayaH
stqZ;an h;ariH
pav;itreZa v;icarSaZiH
;utsam n;a
vAj;I asTAt
Ir;ayati hinv;ate
nad;ISu vAj;inam
n;a zuBr;aH
z;am ca
D;anuH tanvanti
meD;Am aB;i
samudr;e ;iSyan
vats;am n;a
;A sucet;unam
r;AjA pav;itram
v;aMsu kal;azeSu
sv:ar g;AH
t;An ;apracetasaH
pratarIt;A uS;asaH
h;ariH n;i
Diy;A v;izve
suv;Iryam ray;im
;A sqja
ukTy:am v;izvA
v;AjAya am;qtAya
dAnupinv;aH qt;am
pavaDvam ;arZasA
amqtatv;Aya GoS;ayaH
p;avamAna k;anikradat
p;avamAna qt;uBiH
devay;antaH kakS;Ivate
prad;izam yAti
arSati eS;a
n;aBaH v;asAnaH
gqZIhi d;Evyam
y;anti s;am
p;ayaH ;aTarvAZaH
dr;oZAni r;oruvat
vizv;adarzataH s;a
;induH D;armAZi
punAn;aH Urm;iZA
cit p;arihvqtim
;A viveza
zradD;ayA t;apasA
DIt;im qSiS;Aw
Druv;aH rayIZ;Am
;amartyaH parZav;IH
dqz;e s;ADAraZam
vraj;am n;a
zaryaZ;Avati y;e
;utsaH deva
k;ozAn acikradat
jigeTa y;aH
;adriBiH s;a
DAtr;A soma
nimn;e Az;avaH
vAjin aGny;AH
pavate vicakSaZ;aH
soma paZ;iByaH
;aCa vIt;I
vA sat;aH
g;uhA pad;am
deva hiraZy;ayaH
qZ;oH ;apa
v;ipravIraH sad;AvqDaH
mAmqje viSwamB;aH
sah;asracakSasam t;am
aranta n;ABayaH
g;avAm urubj;am
DAvati usr;A
tunn;aH aB;iSwutaH
ap;Am j;inva
;indavaH zrIZAn;AH
v;qSA s;omaH
tir;aH r;avam
ca m;ahyam
pUrvy;aH vasuv;it
jananta s;Uryam
D;amanti bAkur;am
arciv;at ;agne
s;adane punarB;uvaH
Aviz;an eS;a
arvAc;InEH paT;iBiH
arSasi p;avasva
madacy;utaH D;anA
v;areZyaH t;ena
aps;AH ;indrAya
kqD;i naH
v;arunaH kave
Ay;an sah;asraDAraH
n;i tozate
sah;asraretAH aB;i
mUrD;A v;qSA
;iSam p;avasva
cit viveda
D;ArAH ;ati
supr;aketaH aB;i
;A Dehi
madAmaH ;anDasA
Im pit;A
Urm;ayaH ;indrasya
zazvattam;am barh;iH
candr;A B;artave
v;arivaH vidat
s;inDUnAm kal;azAn
trit;asya m;arjyaH
v;i naH
iva sAnas;iH
vAy;ave m;adaH
punAn;aH ;indram
te parisr;utam
maKasy;ase p;avasva
zukr;AH g;avAziraH
acikradat dy;OH
;oSaDIByaH baBr;ave
aB;i DAvati
;akSitA mah;I
;A arohayaH
eS;a v;iprEH
;indo dev;apsarAH
tigm;azqVgaH d;ivA
prav;Ace ap;Am
v;Aram arSati
;upa sIdata
t;ena punIhi
B;are kqt;am
kal;azeSu DAvati
z;atruSu p;avamAna
mad;intamaH p;avasva
soma nqc;akSase
durg;ahAZi svAyuD;aH
p;avamAnaH raT;ItamaH
t;ane Urm;im
g;AH deva
ap;Am up;asTe
n;u n;avyase
ray;im pqT;um
;indram g;aCan
cam;USu z;akmanA
punAn;aH Ay;uSu
n;a vizv;adarzataH
manIS;iZaH zyen;aH
nqmZ;A z;izAnaH
arSa svarv;it
;upa trit;asya
;ojasA dev;An
p;avasva goj;it
s;am g;oagrayA
Danva svast;aye
d;asyave kar
;aZveSu sazcima
m;qDaH kratuv;it
;azvAvat g;omat
br;avImi te
d;izaH n;AnAsUryAH
;indo v;izvAH
;it p;ari
vay;am g;oBiH
n;Ama Av;iH
eti k;anikradat
sut;aH mah;e
qtAy;antIH aB;i
v;qSZyam z;avaH
dev;aH samudr;iyaH
;indrasya k;Amam
h;etAraH ;azUzuBan
v;izvAH ;apa
pUy;amAnaH m;atsi
sAt;aye v;asUni
v;qSA ;ava
pratn;am ;it
mIXvaH qtavAk;ena
hinvAn;aH arSati
arSati s;omaH
akSAr sahasras;AH
g;omataH punAn;aH
v;aruZasya vrat;Ani
akSAr m;adeSu
aDvar;aH p;ari
v;arma v;i
sutAsaH indavaH
cakSi soma
vAjas;Atamam ray;im
Atmanv;at n;aBaH
s;am yAti
agn;iH n;a
y;onA mahiS;AH
aB;i y;ena
asya mat;uTAH
vqSw;im div;aH
eS;a kav;iH
ca D;Amahe
naH rAy;aH
nazanta s;aniSanta
y;uvAnam AhutIv;qDam
v;iSvaYcam aruhat
asm;at p;arA
duhit;uH d;aDAnaH
D;ArayA pqSW;eSu
v;i gAhate
sIdAti kal;azam
Danvasi s;oma
;iSam ;indo
stotr;e rAy;e
s;omaH v;aneSu
DarZas;iH kr;andan
s;a supr;aketaH
mand;anAH avIvazat
v;Acam ;A
maZx;UkaH iCati
suh;astAH s;a
iyakSati gqBZ;Ati
y;azaH ay;A
matIn;Am ;asamaSwakAvyaH
n;a vikS;u
sqj;ata m;aDumattamam
Ay;avaH kav;im
zakun;AnAm kArmAr;aH
;adabDaH indo
v;AryAZi z;UragrAmaH
zyen;ajUtaH duh;e
s;UraH n;a
vqj;aneSu yajY;iyaH
s;etum durAvy:am
n;a druS;at
vid;e y;at
dev;eByaH devazr;uttamam
ur;u iva
matsar;intamaH cam;USu
t;at v;acaH
b;iBrat ap;Am
DIB;iH v;iprAH
;A kal;azam
zraTnIt;e napt;IH
y;aH Adad;e
soma B;are
arc;ayaH div;aH
pavasva madir;aH
maG;onAm aB;i
sravanti saMsrav;AH
s;omam ;indraH
v;ipram ;A
qjr;aH ;induH
g;arBam AdaD;e
;asAvi aMz;uH
mahiS;aH v;aneSu
v;anAnAm s;omaH
viv;evidat s;omaH
v;Acam iSyati
s;iSAsan uS;asaH
bqh;at Az;uH
vAvazAn;AH j;uSwam
viSw;apam duhat;e
z;uciH r;omAZi
samudr;am nady:aH
harIZAm pate
r;asam s;arvam
dev;atAte pavasva
n;a vqta
vavr;im pit;uH
saKy;am pavate
t;anayam ca
bah;avaH manIS;iZaH
sIdati krIx;uH
sot;qBiH mqjy;amAnaH
aB;Itya s;a
hAsate p;avamAnaH
kal;aze pav;itre
eS;a v;izvAni
Dar;uZaH div;aH
jajYe jan;ayan
vAZ;asya codaya
suv;Iryam m;andamAnaH
im;AH g;iraH
D;AmanI pratIc;I
praTam;aH pqCate
y;ena dr;aviZam
aYjmaH m;adAya
y;oDyA t;Ani
dy;AvApqTiv;I deva
k;ArSman ;A
h;iraZyA aB;i
n;a ;etazaH
kal;azam g;oBiH
n;a m;Arutam
DAvati eS;a
opaz;am kqZute
aruhat r;ajiSWAm
;avyam arSati
sut;aH sudakSa
ant;ar As;ani
D;Ama p;Urvam
mad;intamaH matsar;aH
j;AyamAnaH aBavaH
;A haryat;aH
hav;iH haviSmaH
B;UricakSasam t;am
didIh;i deva
;asreDan t;am
camv:oH vizat
vqSw;ayaH ;aCa
z;uSmam nqS;Ahyam
pr;ati agqBZan
n;a v;aMsu
UrZu vIr;eBiH
pavamAna niZy;e
;atra kart;am
vizv;AcyA Diy;A
it;OutiH qgm;iyaH
pr;asTitAH vayask;qtaH
h;i priy;aH
dev;AnAm j;anima
asm;aByam tvA
kS;ipaH pr;a
h;otA iva
y;aTA j;eSAma
sUpasT;ABiH n;a
y;oSaZaH d;aza
samudr;aH pit;A
v;i tiSWase
m;aDu j;ayan
nayanti svAyuD;aH
D;ArA y;aH
asqgram ;indavaH
;it maZx;UkaH
;aniSkqtam j;anAya
maG;onAm ;AyuH
aB;i rakSa
;upa u
tvA DIB;iH
;Aha vipqCat;e
santi pUrv;IH
z;am j;anAya
;A mah;I
mAt;araH h;arim
vic;akSase ;indo
papuH ;A
vyUrZv;an am;qtasya
;indrasya jaW;areSu
g;oBiH indo
pUrv;acittaye ;A
s;omaH v;izvasya
v;i akSaran
v;asUni dev;EH
naH s;omam
aB;i v;izvAH
;induH v;arivaH
nirZ;ijam t;anA
kr;atUn s;am
g;AH asm;aByam
n;a zravasy;avaH
pavasva vicarSaZe
kAr;avaH gir;A
bqh;at vadema
gIrB;iH vAcamIVKay;am
pr;a y;at
pavasva devay;uH
p;ari eSi
Aviz;an punAn;aH
sut;AH arSanti
s;a sut;aH
naH Urj;e
aBavaH devav;ItamaH
n;a pqtan;AjaH
p;ari u
saMv;asAnam viv;asvataH
;ojaH ;ajanayat
h;ariZyA punAn;aH
sp;arDante D;iyaH
pr;ati DIyate
sah;asracakSasam ;aTa
pr;a razm;iBiH
cakradaH v;qSA
t;arat samudr;am
vAy;ave pUSZ;e
t;An ihi
daDe triD;Atu
yujAn;aH ;qkvaBiH
naH ;induH
j;ahAti vavr;im
matsar;aH indriy;aH
g;AvaH m;adAya
v;icarSaZiH s;a
p;avamAnAya gAyata
rUp;e avy;aye
y;asya v;arZam
;aCa ;indo
vidy;ut stan;ayantI
srava dyumn;am
aB;i v;Aryam
p;ari zyen;aH
vip;A kqt;aH
;invan m;adAya
DiyAyate bqhat;e
dev;aH dev;eBiH
r;AjA draps;An
n;i barh;iSi
yAti c;ekitat
z;uci ;A
pAhi tv;am
aB;i dyumn;am
d;akSAya ;azvaH
;indram m;adAya
azv;inA tv;aSwA
k;AvyA B;arate
p;ari siYcata
asi s;a
tv;e naH
h;iraZyavat ;azvAvat
devAvy:aH naH
devav;ItamaH eS;a
m;ahivrataH z;ucibanDuH
triB;iH tv;am
t;asya te
;aDi z;eva
arSati n;qBiH
indo zatagv;inam
k;ozam maDuzc;utam
;akSAr ;ati
aB;itaH s;am
bruvAZ;aH dev;aH
zuSm;I z;arDaH
dr;oZAni DAvati
jy;otiH kqZuhi
asm;aByam yAcatAt
zikSa apatasT;uSaH
z;UraH n;a
naH p;UrvAsaH
sr;iDaH eS;a
kSarat ;indrasya
divy;am pavasva
k;anikradat s;a
;adrayaH tvA
;aTa ;A
Im vizv;ataH
m;aDoH D;ArABiH
sady;aH itT;ADiye
v;icarSaZiH p;avasva
man;anAH agqBZata
I riZanti
v;eti druh;aH
dade ugr;am
y;at ;anDaH
Diy;A jUt;AH
vizv;ataH ;ataptatanUH
pUy;amAnaH svast;i
et;am mqjanti
;indram vizanti
ukT;EH yajY;eSu
s;Uryasya ;upa
te Az;avaH
ud;amandiSuH sut;AH
vid;aTe suv;IrAH
asya pit;aram
naH k;im
ahyan Bur;ijoH
asya pAhi
s;arvavIraH s;ahAvAn
p;ayaH p;avamAna
dev;IH hiraZy;ayIH
dr;aviZAni naH
iS;aH sy;Ama
soma p;Urve
uzmasi ;A
;atkam n;a
acikradat ;indrasya
zaryah;A iva
codaya qt;asya
yakSat Av;qtA
t;antum tanvAn;am
;ekam DAvasi
punAn;aH tanv:am
dev;aH ;induH
soma aB;i
dev;eByaH d;uvaH
aB;i s;oma
dev;AH ev;a
dev;avItaye ;arSa
g;oBiH adB;iH
ay;A s;omaH
v;arDanaH pUy;amAnaH
;aDi tripqSW;aH
daDe p;UrvAm
haryat;aH h;ariH
p;ari p;ArTivam
pIy;USam duhate
reB;aH eti
s;Uryasya ;asireZa
punIh;i mA
;upa saKy;am
ap;aH ;ayukta
pav;itre r;aTaH
h;ariH mitr;asya
v;iSZave dev;eByaH
zagD;i mah;aH
;aDa ty;am
;ati avy;ayam
Dehi z;atruSu
m;aDu kriyate
y;atra r;AjA
s;AnO ;avye
;it p;ayaH
upast;araZam camv:oH
rUp;A aB;i
v;iprAH s;am
p;atim mah;Am
r;ADase ca
g;aBastipUtaH n;qBiH
janit;A pqTivy;AH
p;qznimAtaraH c;Aru
mIXvaH k;anikradat
iva vqSw;ayaH
manIS;iZaH s;a
lok;AH y;atra
vAj;I n;a
naH Iyase
t;am naH
s;Anu stan;ayan
tvac;i ;iSam
sah;asram ;azvAH
suvrat;aH zyen;aH
;A p;Antam
d;akSaH v;i
v;AjaganDyam san;ema
D;iyaH pinvAn;AH
G;qSvayaH s;omAsaH
r;ocamAnaH v;ayaH
sv:ar pr;a
uSarb;uDam ;induH
vidv;An vanavat
c;akriH hant;A
dev;AnAm n;Ama
c;araZam trinAk;e
;A d;ame
iva gAt;uH
p;ari s;omaH
te asy;a
n;a dev;aH
v;i nIyate
;induH s;Idan
aps;u DUt;aH
viv;asvataH j;anantaH
vasUy;avaH ;anu
sAsahy;Ama pqtanyat;aH
uzat;e t;avasvAn
g;oSu tiSWati
barh;aZA nirZ;ije
ha y;am
aB;i dr;oZA
y;aH devav;ItamaH
upad;qk ay;am
dev;AnAm v;izvA
dev;IH sup;ezasaH
h;ariH aMz;um
D;AmAni ;akramIt
d;Anam IVKaya
d;akSEH punIhi
apasy;avaH pariSkqZv;anti
t;antum tat;am
suvAn;AH arep;asaH
pIt;aye ;At
dev;An ;api
k;anikranti h;ariH
r;ajaH aB;i
b;ADate p;ari
vAj;inaH ;arvataH
s;UryaH p;ari
qt;asya t;antuH
n;a k;ozAsaH
DIt;ayaH vqSaB;asya
r;akSate z;iraH
saD;asTam aB;i
n;a s;aptayaH
yajY;eSu devav;ItamaH
r;odasI punAn;aH
praTam;aH DAmaD;AH
maDuzc;utam avy;aye
ay;am s;UryaH
tigm;Ani s;anti
asmE p;avamAnaH
zvet;am kal;azam
kuv;it vqSaZy;antIByaH
;asazcuSI kSum;at
vayanti ;asurAya
g;AH ;akqntat
stut;aH ;induH
mah;aH samudr;am
n;i sIdata
y;am g;AvaH
p;avamAnAsaH Az;avaH
padajY;AH svarv;idaH
sv;asAraH aB;i
tv;am asi
sT;ana div;aH
v;AjasAtaye v;i
y;avena pipize
paT;iBiH vacov;it
saKitv;am uzmasi
zuSm;iZaH v;qTA
t;asmin m;Am
;aDi tiSWanti
baBr;um punanti
v;qSA v;aneSu
purusp;qham eS;a
dayate v;AryAZi
;anDasaH m;adeSu
janit;A s;Uryasya
soma duSw;aram
vAvazre ;indum
p;ari g;avyAni
t;am g;oBiH
m;adeSu sarvaD;AH
g;avyAni DArayaH
kal;aze r;asam
pavate manIS;I
upamantr;iZaH z;epaH
h;ariH ;A
aruhat vicakSaZ;aH
sr;iDaH aB;i
saty;am p;avamAnasya
v;arDanti te
te rAjan
mitr;aH v;aruZaH
sIda n;i
sqjAn;aH paTy:Am
pUrvy;e vy:omani
Irayati pr;a
sah;asraBarZasam v;Acam
v;arDantaH apt;uraH
tozate punAn;aH
;indrAya suh;avItunAmne
ukS;A iva
vqZImahe p;Antam
n;a sapt;a
;udyataH m;adaH
y;aTA v;iw
;uttaraH s;Idan
jan;uSI uB;e
jan;ayan ;upAvasuH
Gqt;am v;asAnaH
itT;ADiye d;ivodAsAya
;api s;omaH
B;ava maG;avA
;iSam asm;aByam
t;amAMsi jiGnase
punAn;aH mad;intamaH
varivoD;AtamaH Bava
v;Are p;avamAnaH
tanyat;um jy;otiH
pavasva DanaMjaya
hinv;anti ;adriBiH
gaZ;ena kav;iH
sicyase n;qBiH
;akSi vAvqD;uH
vIt;im ;anDasA
;indrasya jaW;are
dAH B;ava
s;omaH kapard;ine
;indrAya v;aruZAya
pavamAna r;odasI
;arAtyAH ar;iH
p;ari v;Aram
takti ;etazaH
gAhate sut;aH
z;UraH ;agre
vizvav;it t;am
h;ariH opaz;am
pariD;Avasi ;aram
t;e s;am
tv;am raTir;aH
d;aDAnaH ;akSiti
p;avamAnena soma
mAnavI ;induH
pqTiv;Im ut;a
I mqjanti
v;astrA samany:A
puruv;AraH aps;u
suSwut;im ;ixAm
sah;asraDAraH p;ari
bqhat;IH jIradAno
viv;evidat aBivr;ajan
paT;A D;arman
v;asUni ;ojasA
y;e sam;asvaran
pavate kavIy;an
Az;avaH aB;i
avqZIta sukr;atuH
aB;i aYjate
punAn;asya saMy;ataH
eS;a u
y;asya vA
pqTivy;AH v;izvAH
sahasr;iZam ray;im
jajYAn;aH jan;ayan
sapr;aTaH m;AkiH
vipray;antaH v;i
D;ArAH apasy;uvaH
rAjati st;up
mqjanti azvahay;EH
vizvacakSaH ;qBvasaH
can;a amamat
sut;aH ;induH
;anu g;AH
p;avamAna j;animAni
h;ariH p;ari
zqZ;avan h;i
;indo sah;asravarcasam
t;am tripqSW;e
maDuzc;utam n;ityastotraH
m;adAya n;qBiH
sAhv;An v;izvAH
t;at sam;inakSantaH
v;qSA indo
duhanti Ay;avaH
usr;iyaH n;Anadat
aB;i tripqSW;am
vAy;Un granT;im
iva ;indram
n;i caranti
aB;i vAj;inaH
siYcata ;azvam
nad;ISu j;anaH
s;omaH v;Ajam
jAt;am ;anDasaH
zrIt;asya n;qBiH
durit;A tara
jAgqhi apaGn;an
;indram ;indavaH
yat;aH v;Ajam
akramuH ruc;e
yAt t;anA
p;Atave ;aTa
avyata s;AnO
te v;qSZyam
;A aps;AH
punAn;aH indo
vEzvAnar;am bqh;at
arSati tr;I
am;qte lok;e
y;at B;avaTaH
svarv;idaH suSvAZ;AsaH
dev;eSu ratnaD;AH
pUS;A ray;iH
vaDasn;EH p;ari
vIr;avatIm ;iSam
pavate m;aDu
tv;am naH
sahasras;Am ;qSim
vrat;eSu ;api
;A sqjy;amAnaH
ven;am Ad;ize
pr;a s;omAsaH
pinvati tv;acam
;asarji v;akvA
ray;im t;uYjAnaH
sv:arSAtA v;ane
;aDi dy;avi
mAt;qBiH sqj;ata
;ava dyutAn;aH
ugr;am z;arma
v;Acam ;induH
y;at aYjat;e
s;a v;izvA
;anu sv;am
krAZ;A z;izuH
aVg;a d;EvyA
;aCa s;a
ray;im sam;atsu
t;ava ty;e
marmqjAn;aH ;aviBiH
p;avamAnaH asmay;uH
;asqgram indo
aca it;aH
;upa s;Ure
v;i avy;ayam
;akramuH Gn;antaH
pav;itre vicakSaZ;aH
asya D;Ama
p;Urvam ;agan
draps;asya D;amataH
Ar;aBam sah;asraDAre
m;artasya k;asya
;indrAya vAy;ave
hiraZy;ayam v;izve
pr;ayase hit;aH
p;avasva vAjas;AtamaH
suzr;iyaH vidAn;AH
m;adAsaH madir;AsaH
p;aYca carSaZ;IH
aMz;uH pavate
g;aBastyoH dr;uZA
B;UriDAyasam t;am
r;odasI mah;I
soma svast;aye
pqSW;A gqBZata
upapaptiv;AMsam g;iraH
kav;iH asya
raZyati ap;aH
yUT;e n;a
ray;im asm;e
p;avamAnaH manIS;AH
Bara ;aTa
sarvaD;AH asi
am;qtAya k;am
jah;i v;izvAn
manT;inA g;oBiH
asmay;uH v;izvA
ca ucc;A
qt;asya s;Adane
avy;ayA s;Idan
z;UraH y;an
B;UrZayaH tveS;AH
;indreZa soma
;A sIdAti
pav;A pavasva
yemAn;aH jajYAn;aH
pavasva mah;e
meD;Am ut;a
naH yaz;asaH
naH ray;im
y;at ;A
akSaran v;qSZaH
hinvanti harmy;asya
dev;eSu raZyati
yUy;am pAta
vqSw;ayaH agn;eH
vqtr;AZi B;UrZayaH
;agre s;inDUnAm
tripqSW;e trivanDur;e
zqt;am hav;iH
zukr;aH v;i
m;aDumatIH asqgran
adyOt pr;a
;indrAya soma
kukS;A n;qBiH
adB;iH soma
;A naH
vivAvqD;e r;AjA
y;aTA r;aTam
srava kAr;uH
mah;I r;odasI
ant;ar aB;i
haryat;aH vicakSaZ;aH
;asqgram v;Are
suparZ;aH ;ava
praj;AyE div;aH
kqZv;an ;indrAya
;avye ;ajanti
v;izve dev;AsaH
s;adanam Diy;A
naH p;avasva
B;aramAZaH r;uzantam
d;aza sv;asAraH
pav;itravantaH p;ari
mAsva nqv;antam
draps;am aruZ;am
p;avasva dev;avItaye
ih;a santu
arSasi samudr;aH
k;anikradat pr;a
n;a darzat;AsaH
upast;ire camv:oH
p;avamAna v;i
bqh;at s;a
eti yajY;iyaH
;induH aB;i
vicakSaZ;aH asm;aByam
;avye jIr;O
samAn;e ant;ar
te ;ut
Den;avaH p;ayasA
;aCa nqc;akSAH
naH z;arma
daDanv;An y;aH
madir;aH mamattu
;A sota
p;ari net;A
zriy;e ;A
puruSwut;aH in;asya
dev;AsaH adr;uhaH
h;i s;omaH
t;ava d;akSaH
m;aDoH D;ArAm
manIS;Am ;indraH
D;AmaBiH t;ava
;aDi stotr;asya
sv;adanti g;AvaH
vqSw;eH it;aH
m;atsi mah;Am
sqjy;ate ;oSaDISu
s;omaH kal;azAn
;amena v;izvA
pratnav;at rocaya
h;ariZI vicakSaZ;aH
huvema d;evAH
;ati akramIt
d;ivam v;i
m;advA m;adyaH
p;uraMDim ;A
;akSitam kav;im
makS;u sumat;iH
ruc;A ;A
sn;unA Danva
pqSW;eSu ;A
pazyati ;ava
u suvAn;aH
pavate gAtuv;ittamaH
manIS;iBiH ;indo
tvA vAjin
rAj;ase IzAn;aH
Ir;ayan p;avasva
mar;utvate p;avasva
asqkSata mah;e
;it varDantu
Azata z;am
D;ArayA m;aDumAn
s;UryaH ;A
k;artvA c;etante
vAy;um vIt;I
p;ArTivA pUy;amAnaH
jy;otiH ;induH
v;izvaH y;asya
indo zat;am
mqjanti ;indo
k;anikradat camv:oH
svAyuD;am mad;intamam
mitr;asya s;adaneSu
ap;aH dev;aH
m;aDO ;A
;ajIjanan zyen;aH
ket;avaH y;adi
nAnAn;am v;E
Adity;AH y;e
B;UrZayaH eS;a
r;omAZi ;avyA
y;aTA vid;e
mar;utvate sut;aH
kr;Ixan camv:oH
naH vAjas;Atamam
niSkqt;am sah;asraDAraH
yajY;asya pavate
manIS;iZaH rudr;AsaH
pun;Ati te
arAD;asam hat;a
razm;im tisr;aH
gavyay;uH s;a
jy;ok pazyema
dev;AsaH cakrir;e
iva DIj;avanaH
D;ArayA ApAn;AsaH
z;uciH Diy;A
kAr;avaH d;aDAnAH
y;aH t;am
y;onim As;adam
s;UryaH n;a
sad;AvqDaH s;omaH
madir;aH n;a
meD;Am s;ana
punAn;aH ap;aH
aBik;anikradat g;AH
v;qSZaH sut;asya
naH en;A
;ati aB;i
y;at asy;a
naH nid;aH
aps;u duSw;araH
vanuSyat;A aB;i
jajYAn;am haryat;am
r;etaH Ad;aDat
m;adam ay;A
y;Atave ;qSIZAm
p;avamAnasya astu
t;ejiSWAH ap;aH
G;qSvaye ulokakqtn;um
h;ariH ;amartyaH
y;aH niy;utvAn
naH ady;a
soma citr;am
AB;uvaH hinvir;e
tv;am pav;itre
dqz;aye rirIhi
s;am arSati
v;ayaH d;aDat
aB;i priy;AZi
n;a yajY;aH
;aDi y;onO
s;omAsaH ;indavaH
tvA havAmahe
jAm;iBiH n;asate
madir;AsaH ;indavaH
srava sapt;a
zv;Anam znaTiSwana
DAraya s;oma
v;arDantaH asya
arocayat jAm;iBiH
m;ayi p;oSam
Gqt;am n;a
Bara yuv;am
p;ari kr;atunA
z;izum rihanti
Gn;antaH kqSZ;Am
v;ipram Aj;A
pqSW;e ;aDi
y;at AsAm
s;atvA eS;A
arep;asaH svADy:aH
indo vAy;Un
;indrAya mand;inaH
asadat ;avAvazanta
mahiS;AH aheSata
p;atiH g;avAm
y;ena naH
B;arAya sAnas;iH
g;AvaH aDanviSuH
Az;avaH n;a
t;am ;it
asiSyadat p;avate
veDasy;A p;ari
vrat;e soma
m;aDoH v;i
matsar;am s;a
te m;adAH
kqt;am hiraZy;ayam
s;a h;i
;indram asm;aByam
vicinv;an b;anDUn
p;avamAnaH m;ahoBiH
v;qSaZam v;ajrabAhum
raBas;asya m;antavaH
zazraTe t;ejiSWAH
D;ArAH bqhat;IH
Im r;aTaH
qt;am v;adan
p;ari it;aH
ca n;u
ca y;at
vayoD;AH s;a
prIZanti t;am
;A gata
;ojasA tv;ayA
duduhuH manIS;iZaH
suv;Iryasya p;atayaH
;adrO aBizastip;AH
naH v;izvA
ray;im ;aTa
et;Ani soma
n;aram dAt
sAnas;iH ;indrAya
uBay;ataH p;avamAnasya
dr;uZA hit;aH
v;ipraH tv;am
z;arma yaCati
dakS;AyyaH aryam;A
soma ;A
;A p;ari
kqDi ray;im
j;anAnAm t;akSA
;arjune ;atke
t;akave n;aram
punAn;aH acikradat
pavamAna D;IrAH
s;a punAtu
nad;ISu ;A
c;AruZaH uB;e
maG;avA r;ADasaH
aYjate kr;atum
p;avamAnaH aB;i
dvay;um ;indram
kav;iH k;AvyA
sud;AnavaH prIZanti
aB;i papraTe
yajat;aH divisp;qzam
;indum nAv;AH
t;Ani t;uByam
avyata Buj;e
bqhat;aH bqh;an
saKy;Aya baBro
sahasras;AH vAjay;uH
aB;i j;AyamAnam
r;odasI h;ariH
m;adyam m;adam
mah;at t;at
pr;a vaH
p;ArTivam v;asu
vaH h;i
mah;An samudr;aH
svADy:aH p;avamAnAsaH
;udyatam mandr;asya
r;aZA y;aH
v;AryA aB;i
r;asaH madir;aH
sAk;am vadanti
kave z;uciH
Urm;iZA ;avyaH
qSiSAZa veD;asaH
varDaya g;iraH
;AryA zukr;AH
ca y;atra
barh;iSi priy;e
pUS;A y;Amani-yAmani
v;iprAH mat;iBiH
s;iSAsantaH vanAmahe
avIvazat ;indrasya
n;a BuriS;Aw
duhanti stan;ayantam
D;ArayA p;avamAnaH
jy;otiH vid;Asi
ray;im g;omantam
naH vqSw;im
D;IraH uz;anA
mar;utvantaH matsar;AH
pavasva m;adAya
nIyate div;aH
t;AH udany;uvaH
n;i tAriSaH
veD;asaH v;qTA
B;ava indo
;agre ;ahnAm
soma dyum;attamaH
tv;am ;ahinAmnAm
r;etaH ;A
priy;aH kal;aze
IkSeZy:AsaH ahy:aH
v;i asTiran
jan;ayan ;iSaH
p;ArTivam r;ajaH
pr;a v;iprAZAm
dyumn;am bqh;at
n;a tanyat;um
naH n;iH
id;am v;izvam
d;IDitim pr;a
asarat tir;aH
svard;qzam hinv;e
pazyati c;akSasA
ray;im piz;aVgam
dev;AnAm sumn;e
arSati ;ahiH
n;a sarji
sud;uGAH Gqtazc;utaH
;ava k;alpeSu
asi t;am
sahasrajit t;am
mah;I p;avamAnaH
z;arma m;ahi
r;aMhayaH y;at
p;ari D;ArayA
sat;aH p;ari
soma gaCasi
paZ;iByaH ;A
s;omaH y;aH
ev;a naH
aMz;um rihanti
;atyAH p;ari
asadaH c;AruH
sumat;iH Bava
cakre Ar;aBe
;anaptam aps;u
yamat s;a
v;arcase Bara
ca gAt;um
;indrasya h;Ardi
padav;IH kavIn;Am
v;ipraH kav;iH
dUrak;e Bay;am
akSaran et;e
;upa dr;oZeSu
soma z;izum
pr;a-pra kS;ayAya
ray;im arSa
;avyaH v;AreSu
arSati v;iSZave
p;oSam p;avamAnaH
;indrasya tv;am
tm;anA yahv;I
tv;ayA vay;am
tiSWantu kqSw;ayaH
v;ayaH jarit;qByaH
Diy;A saMv;asAnam
Aj;im y;aTA
qB;uH n;a
c;AruH m;adAya
j;anAnAm priy;aH
ant;ar ;qSayaH
;aTa id;am
s;Anavi kS;ipaH
n;ABayaH tr;In
y;atra k;AmAH
yanti g;opatim
pUy;amAnaH vicakSaZ;aH
rAjan zqt;am
asmay;uH ;acikradat
asya ;asat
r;eBan pr;a
asadat varivoD;AtamaH
pr;a r;AjA
cit tvA
pavAte ;ati
dyumn;Aya z;izum
tv;acam d;aDAti
razm;ayaH ket;um
suSvAZ;AsaH v;i
vir;Ajam ;anu
ray;im p;avantAm
s;am asvaran
agn;eH iva
ap;aH pr;a
dr;oZAni baBr;avaH
div;aH s;omaH
asy;a pratn;Am
sIdati marmqjAn;aH
sut;aH div;aH
Azata kakuh;aH
;iSaH pate
m;aDu aB;i
jAr;am n;a
devay;uH v;i
sqjy;amAnaH s;Idan
y;ena mitr;Av;aruZA
p;avamAnaH hiraZyay;uH
g;AvaH ;A
r;ajaH divy;A
duh;anti z;akmanA
aB;i syAma
veD;asaH s;am
kAr;avaH saMn;asanta
pr;a syandasva
Az;avaH pavamAna
;indre daDAtana
aB;i ;it
parAy;atiH reB;aH
Ix;enyaH p;avamAnaH
s;am s;Uryasya
d;ame qt;asya
sahasr;iZam y;e
v;qSA v;qSavrataH
rihanti mat;ayaH
haviSmaH m;ahi
r;aTaH n;a
t;apoH pav;itram
r;aTyAsaH y;aTA
naH Bara
harSate hit;aH
k;Amasya y;atra
vqj;anasya r;AjA
iva tasTima
te n;ABA
I s;aKAyaH
duC;unAm agn;iH
pr;ayAMsi ca
;apa dv;iSaH
m;aDumantam aMz;um
y;onA vasat;O
jIr;O ;aDi
ukT;eBiH anum;AdyaH
n;a ;eti
p;Atave div;aH
zr;avaH ;indrAya
Dehi dyum;at
dev;avItaye vAjay;antaH
daz;aBiH k;Amyam
hiraZy;ayam zakun;am
aB;i n;araH
k;am p;ayaH
AVgUS;AZAm avAvazanta
;indrapItam svarv;idam
vAy;ave triD;Atu
v;Acam arit;A
s;omAya gAT;am
mat;ayaH sacante
r;aTe ;A
ay;am mat;avAn
aB;i dev;An
BAk v;asunaH
Bed;O v;Ar
h;ariH pav;itre
As;adam v;eti
kqZv;an indrahav;An
kS;EtaH asm;e
;ahnAm r;AjA
sAt;aye tv;am
puraet;A j;anAnAm
m;adiSWayA p;avasva
t;AH aB;i
v;Acam iSir;Am
yug;A aB;i
;indrAya DIyate
niSkqt;am r;AjA
tanvAn;am uttam;am
AvIt y;ena
saMv;asaneSu akramuH
s;am adB;iH
;asqkSata pr;a
aB;i zrIZanti
indriy;am ;A
punAn;aH arSati
t;anA punAn;aH
rav;aTena v;i
asadat cam;USu
rAjasi uBay;ataH
pad;am yajY;asya
sAt;A tan;UnAm
;indraH pibatu
pariy;an arAvIt
k;ozam n;i
avy;aye v;Are
p;Atave pr;a
v;i AnazuH
g;aBastyoH s;omaH
punAn;aH uS;asaH
h;iraZyavantam iCati
z;izAnaH h;ariZI
;indra s;omAH
s;inDum ;ati
suvAn;aH c;akSase
pur;i camv:oH
ray;im mah;Am
vIr;avat y;azaH
te jigy;uSaH
m;anasaH j;avIyAn
zukr;AH pavaDvam
rIt;im ap;Am
jayati zr;avaH
madintama g;oBiH
dev;atAtaye s;a
kav;iH p;avasva
pavate g;aBastyoH
p;avamAnAsaH ;indram
qt;asya mAt;arA
asi y;at
v;ahniH ;amartyaH
gop;Am puroy;AvAnam
ray;im azv;inam
n;a haryat;aH
deva devay;uH
arSa kr;Ixan
dev;asya dev;IH
v;qSA punAn;aH
saty;asya n;AvaH
mqjy;amAnaH kav;iBiH
n;a c;AravaH
indra s;omaH
puror;ucam yUy;am
kal;azAn aB;i
j;Etrasya cetati
ajyate manIS;iBiH
m;aDvaH Urm;iH
zl;okam indriy;am
zat;ayAmnA paT;A
ket;avaH ;amqtyavaH
;indum ;induH
p;avamAnam svADy:aH
punanti v;AreZa
saMdad;iH mah;IH
;ajIjanan kav;im
gavy;uH acikradat
urukSit;O gqZIhi
v;Ajasya saMgaT;e
;ajanti v;ahnim
;asarji vAj;I
vizvacarSaZe aB;i
varDanti k;armaBiH
;anu D;AmAni
iva Urm;iH
soma z;am
marmqjy;amAnaH Ay;uBiH
p;ari dyukS;am
r;aTam v;iSvaYcam
;A zAsate
;ApaH arSanti
yanti Urm;ayaH
sahasras;AH Buvat
dqX;A cit
m;aryaH deva
s;abanDavaH p;aYca
Candasy:Am v;Acam
t;am IVKaya
;indrasya div;e-dive
pr;a hinvAn;AsaH
asya BAn;uH
gqBZIta sAnas;im
punAn;aH Gn;an
s;inDoH Urm;A
kav;ikratuH ;A
DAvasi pr;a
akSaran apapr;oTantaH
v;qSA ay;am
man;O ;aDi
BIm;aH m;anasaH
te r;asasya
Baranti am;qtam
s;iSAsan s;omaH
didyute samudr;AsaH
asy;a preS;A
v;izvAni k;AvyA
s;omaH mahiS;aH
indo camv:oH
z;izum rAy;aH
k;anikranti pav;itre
Urm;eH iva
sah;asram vA
kratuv;it naH
Datte ;AyuDA
zatagv;inam g;avAm
v;AjeBiH ;arSati
ayukta y;Atave
dev;eByaH soma
v;qTA kr;Ixantam
;usrayaH p;avamAnam
s;Anavi p;avamAnaH
p;ari y;aH
pazyati v;AvahiH
vizvav;it eS;a
sumeD;AH gAtuv;it
B;UmanaH v;i
r;aTam nad;ISu
vqSaB;aH k;anikradat
v;astrAZi aruS;aH
Bara vid;AH
s;omAya v;acaH
h;iraZyavat vay;am
DAvati rakSoh;A
s;am dvay;IBiH
pr;a vAj;inaH
As;adam mqj;anti
v;izvA dv;eSAMsi
sv:arZaram pr;azastaye
;indrasya z;uSmam
padAti ;apraBuH
asm;aByam v;AjAn
;anu y;eBiH
payov;qDam priy;am
;A roha
samIcIn;e dADAra
Asu saMdad;iH
d;adqze n;aktam
d;aDAta ven;am
yanti vqSw;ayaH
asya D;ArAH
gir;A jAt;aH
sAdanasp;qzaH ray;im
g;iraH soma
dyum;An maG;onAm
iva h;otuH
bqhat;IH asqgran
haryat;Aya DqSZ;ave
div;e pqTivy;E
vay;am s;aKAyaH
avy;ayam ;atkam
soma pr;acyutaH
D;anA j;ayema
;azvam raT;IH
arvAv;ati sunvir;e
u sy;a
pav;itreBiH p;avamAnaH
mahiS;aH v;i
v;anasp;atiH DIn;Am
DUnavat r;aZAya
sapt;a pazyati
g;uhA hit;am
cat;uraH asm;aByam
;indavaH y;aH
;amartyaH vqtrah;A
v;AZIH anUSata
udany;uvaH kS;ipaH
dIyati aB;i
D;AmAni vizvacakSaH
sv;aDitiH v;anAnAm
suparZy:aH t;AH
ad;aH zaryaZ;Avati
pr;a suvAn;AsaH
p;avamAnaH dazasyati
z;UrataraH BUrid;AByaH
mahimn;e soma
;A daDuH
B;arAsaH kAr;iZAm
triv;qtam y;aTA
matsar;AsaH svarv;idaH
;ava z;AdeSu
t;am marmqjAn;am
saj;oSasaH mandr;ayA
z;ucim te
;azmaBiH dy;uBiH
tm;an pUS;A
r;aTAnAm gavy;an
naH hinu
soma s;uSutaH
j;anAnAm y;aH
r;ADase z;am
Ay;uSu ;avyaH
saj;oSasaH b;qhasp;atiH
r;AjAnam asy;a
D;IraH t;ava
sriD;aH aps;AH
D;ArayA p;avamAna
;adriBiH c;itAnAH
jant;uH kavIn;Am
soma v;iSZave
cit s;Urye
zat;aDArAH aBizr;iyaH
D;ArayA kav;iH
suv;Iryam jarit;uH
qt;asya jihv;A
aB;i br;ahmIH
sut;aH ;asarji
vqDi ;ati
;A z;UraH
v;AjeSu ;arvatAm
v;AjAya Danvantu
srava v;AjasAtO
sam;inakSantaH Azata
mamattu pr;a
;ati u
;avyam ;A
pavasva nAv;A
eti avy;ayam
p;ari sasvaje
ih;a Ag;aman
m;qDaH v;icarSaZiH
;asqgran dev;avItaye
parj;anyasya iva
p;Arye div;i
;uttaram p;ari
v;AZISu pr;a
v;qkaH h;i
kqZuhi pr;AcaH
h;otuH punAn;aH
barh;iH prAc;Inam
g;oBiH aYjmaH
jan;ayan mat;im
D;ArayA mar;utvantaH
g;iraH tv;otAsaH
h;itvA s;inDuH
sah;asraretAH adB;iH
n;avIyase sUkt;Aya
tir;aH daDe
h;ariH haryat;aH
y;aH g;oBiH
p;AjaH ;A
eSAm p;uruhUta
viSwamB;aH Dar;uZaH
vAcamIVKay;am punAn;am
maK;aH n;a
div;aH pavasva
dv;eSAMsi saDry:ak
pr;a avIvipat
amitrah;A varivov;it
;A yuvate
v;iprAH anUSata
Ay;avaH pad;am
apaj;aVGanat pratnav;at
m;artyAnAm dvit;A
gr;AvZA s;ome
p;ayaH B;uvat
;aDi s;AnO
marj;ayantIH iS;aH
vicakSaZ;aH ;A
nUn;am punAn;aH
;ati gAhate
Dart;ari aYj;ate
k;anikradat sah;asraDAraH
tv;Am yajY;EH
p;ari s;aptiH
saMyat;I m;adaH
kS;ayAya p;anyase
y;azaH maG;avadByaH
;iyakSantaH tv;otayaH
m;AnuSAZAm s;iSAsantaH
jan;ayan aps;u
jigAti s;a
Ay;uBiH urugAy;aH
aB;i dev;avItim
suvasan;Ani arSa
mahiS;aH cakAra
soma jy;eSWaH
pASy:oH ;aBakta
v;qTA p;AjAMsi
n;aBaH ;arZaH
n;avagvaH daDy;aV
pqtanAS;Aw n;a
y;onim qt;asya
s;omAH Ayajy;avaH
priy;Am ;indrasya
naH varivasya
G;qSvayaH matsar;AsaH
vAj;I D;uram
svaranti bah;avaH
avarData mandAn;aH
indo mar;utvate
zrIZIta matsar;am
pIt;aye p;ari
mahIy;uvaH p;avamAna
dev;eSu j;AgqviH
suv;IraH asi
;indram indo
v;akvA r;aTye
p;avamAnaH ;ojaH
g;oBiH vAsayAmasi
asqgram Az;avaH
vizv;ataH p;avamAna
vAvqDe suvAn;aH
p;Urve ;Ayuni
y;AH te
AhutIv;qDam ;aganma
mAtar;izvanA pAvamAn;IH
asi azvas;AH
mat;im ;atyaH
pratic;akSAZaH asya
vAy;um iSw;aye
soma ;atyaH
p;avamAna svard;qzam
h;i zr;avasA
m;anma dvit;A
aps;u d;akSaH
Bind;antaH adrivaH
zuSm;iZaH c;aranti
ukT;Ani p;OMsyA
azn;avAma aB;i
aBr;A iva
iva n;Avam
As;adam t;am
sahasr;iZam et;am
svadayanta gUrt;iBiH
nirZ;ijam p;avasva
p;ariSUtiH Izata
zr;avaH ;anu
c;AruH qt;Aya
nIyase tv;am
nan;A n;AnADiyaH
indo ;anDasaH
Aduh;uH y;adi
brahm;A dev;AnAm
;induH iSyati
dev;AnAm anum;AdyaH
s;omAsaH parAv;ati
anindy;aH vqj;ane
stotr;e z;ikSan
raTaryati p;avamAnaH
v;enataH v;Ak
mUrD;Anam g;AvaH
d;akSam mayoB;uvam
;asAvi s;omaH
daDe sv;asAraH
n;u te
;aVgiroByaH varivov;it
g;omat indo
miSanti B;UrZayaH
qt;asya D;ArayA
viza ;A
pav;itre arSati
v;ahniH ;etazaH
zukr;eBiH akS;aBiH
vqZImahe v;qSA
v;qSA r;aTaH
b;qhasp;ataye m;aDumAn
viv;asvataH zuBr;aH
asi s;ammizlaH
soma saMy;atam
raTir;aH deva
g;AvaH p;ayasA
aB;i tvA
indriy;am pUy;amAnaH
juSAZ;aH dev;aH
D;anAya svAd;uH
n;u naH
kqZute v;arZaH
n;a makS;u
haryat;aH s;omaH
s;omaH avyata
sv:ar n;a
yat;aH svAyuD;aH
v;asAnaH aB;i
hav;iH s;am
pUy;amAnaH aB;i
pavasva dr;aviZam
p;avamAna v;iDarmaZi
k;ArSman vAj;I
nikt;EH s;a
riSw;am rut;am
sut;aH v;izvAH
v;AjasAtO nqS;ahye
viSwamB;aH uttam;aH
pad;am aDvary;uBiH
cit daDiSe
adr;uhaH vats;am
p;avasva devam;AdanaH
kr;atunA pazyate
iva sIdati
yaz;asA g;avAm
v;AreBiH pavate
v;aruZaH hur;uk
pIt;aH vic;akSase
pAti k;Avyam
s;a matsar;aH
ras;inaH r;asAH
arSa eS;a
;aDi y;at
;AyuH eS;a
anUSata mUrD;an
soma pinvase
dev;avItaye v;AjAn
mqYjata t;am
marmqjAn;AsaH Ay;avaH
y;Ani te
apAviSuH ;ati
m;aDumattamaH tv;Am
mqjyate ;adriBiH
n;a Datte
samudr;aH vAcamIVKay;aH
vagn;um iyarti
soma draviZov;it
sv;asAraH ;adrisaMhatam
rurukS;aZim ;ataH
ruja ;A
;avye sah;asraDAraH
samudr;am Az;avaH
p;ArTivA divy;A
m;aDumAn ;adAByaH
;anaBizastA divy;A
pate ArjIk;At
darSi sAt;aye
;ApaH t;atra
;it priy;Am
naH d;ohate
div;aH t;ava
vqtrah;A pavasva
DAvati j;ahat
pr;a haMs;AsaH
devAv;IH m;adaH
tv;acam suvit;asya
am;qtasya c;AruZaH
h;ayAH meD;Am
iCati ;indrAya
ruhat g;amat
aheSata d;aza
dade c;akSuH
pariSkqZv;an ;aniSkqtam
pav;itrA hqd;i
;indavaH ;agman
v;iprAZAm mat;ayaH
;ahrayaH p;ayaH
janit;A agn;eH
dev;avItaye sut;am
harmy;asya sakS;aZim
punAn;aH n;qBiH
n;asate s;am
r;ajasaH kav;iH
purusp;qham ;indo
s;Uryam ;arocayaH
Urm;A vipazc;it
g;AtrAZi p;ari
Diy;A pavate
mat;iBiH svarv;idam
suvAn;aH p;ari
y;asya mar;utaH
s;inDuSu ant;ar
r;asam suv;IraH
am;UH yahv;atIH
indavaH d;aDAta
arSa c;aniSWayA
s;omaH aruS;aH
uB;e soma
vicakSaZ;aH ;arUrucat
;indrAya bqhat;e
m;aDu udak;am
ajuSata pr;ayoBiH
n;a s;AnO
s;uBqtam c;Aru
citr;ABiH Ut;iBiH
Buj;e n;a
g;oBiH te
p;avamAnam s;aKAyaH
m;adaH gaCatu
B;agAya ;indraH
puroy;AvAnam ;A
m;atsi ;indram
pav;itre s;omaH
;adaDAt ;indre
;azvAvat v;Ajavat
DIt;ayaH ;aCa
s;aptiH n;a
rayIZ;Am qt;am
priy;eZa D;AmnA
suv;Iryam pr;a
p;UrvAm ;anu
v;izvA soma
matsar;aH s;am
v;qSA soma
nqS;ahye arazm;AnaH
praB;UvasoH ;asarji
pary;ayAH v;Ajam
jiGnase v;izvAni
acikradat upAr;uhaH
k;Avyena kav;iH
sIdati y;at
div;i s;omaH
vAsayAmasi s;omam
;unnItAH yaz;asA
kqDi s;ana
B;Uma pav;itreBiH
m;ahi ;arZaH
acikradat m;adeSu
s;adaH eti
v;ArAn y;at
eS;a z;qVgAZi
rukm;iBiH Iyate
p;avamAnaH s;a
aB;i r;AjAnam
;akSitam goj;it
n;a h;itvA
avasy;uvaH g;iraH
any;asyAH ;arAtyAH
kal;azAn ;A
y;ena v;anAmahE
p;ari g;oBiH
ap;aH v;asAnam
vAj;ini iva
yajY;am AnuS;ak
v;ahantaH t;at
mad;intamaH kr;Ixan
zuBr;azastamaH h;arizcandraH
arSa pariSw;uBaH
g;avAm krIxati
v;iprasya m;eDyAtiTeH
h;i te
srava ;azvaH
m;adAya ap;Am
;qkvaBiH pr;a
s;argaH n;a
r;asam sut;aH
pavate ;adridugDaH
sv;asAraH p;Arye
r;AjYaH n;u
DAvati s;a
dvib;arhasam ray;im
svaD;ABiH ;aDi
mahiS;AH iva
s;omAH divy;Ani
varDate ;ati
;astqtam mah;e
s;Uryasya janit;A
ps;araH v;qSA
kqta upast;araZam
mqjy;amAnaH suhastya
Urm;iZA t;ava
;indrasya k;Amyam
;A hinvire
gAyata z;izum
y;Atave h;arim
;ojIyAn z;UreByaH
v;Ajam iva
;anDasaH div;i
p;ibaDyE ev;a
kqSw;ayaH ;A
sut;asya ;anDasaH
jigy;uSaH saKitv;am
;asya vrat;eSu
u mat;iH
r;aveZa varD;aya
Iyate p;avamAnaH
naH y;aTA
s;omam jaW;are
k;Amyam bqh;antam
t;am tvA
;anizitam n;amoBiH
aVgDi D;ArayA
m;eDyAtiTeH p;avamAna
r;ajiSWAH ;A
B;avanti saty;A
usr;iyAH nirZ;ijam
pav;itre ;aDi
r;atnam iCati
Iyate ;ut
t;arati ;it
tIrT;e SaSw;im
iva bruvAZ;aH
m;aDupqSWam Gor;am
zuSm;iZaH r;ase
anUSata ;indo
j;AH s;Uryasya
naH pavasva
mitr;AH suvAn;AH
juS;anta y;at
zrav;Ayyam priy;aH
y;aH skamB;aH
n;amasA punAn;AH
m;artasya dev;I
n;a yajY;EH
pAhi ;aMhasaH
h;i pavamAna
p;ayasA payov;qDam
kr;atvA saD;asTam
avit;A naH
j;ayema tv;ayA
praj;Avat r;atnam
r;oruvat div;aH
stan;ayan acikradat
tir;aH pav;itram
asarat pav;itre
kavIn;Am divy;aH
deva v;qSavrataH
mar;utAm iva
mahIy;uvaH ;aDa
;indram v;arDantaH
g;oagrayA ukS;A
sy;a m;AnuSISu
;asuraH cakre
qj;uH pavasva
kal;azAn asqgran
t;asmE s;arasvatI
n;ABA pqTivy;AH
tv;e soma
iyarti v;izvam
y;aH pot;A
s;aKiByaH ;IxyaH
brahmaZaH pate
Bram;AH v;qTA
rayIZ;Am s;aKA
sukqty;ayA mah;aH
;indo v;i
raZyaj;it praj;Avat
p;ari priy;am
Bara p;ari
D;anvan n;a
s;Ama t;at
DanaMjay;aH pavate
z;amBaviSWaH vizv;avAraH
saD;asTA punAn;aH
asmE sapt;a
BAsi am;qtasya
anukAmak;qt ;indrAya
ca pqTiv;Im
svAd;uH indo
juSwv;I naH
Dart;Aram oZy:oH
v;i aznavat
aB;iSwaye ;induH
sUn;uH n;a
svay;ugvaBiH s;UraH
h;ariH p;avamAnaH
cit rakS;asaH
indo s;arasi
anakS;AsaH baDir;AH
kav;ikratuH pr;a-pra
s;a zuSm;I
sqSw;aH adaDAvat
vqSw;idyAvaH rItyApaH
jrayati g;oH
;iSyan v;Acam
ty;am m;adyam
n;a jAt;aH
j;etA pavasva
;avye ;eSi
;ut vqSAyate
yUT;A pariy;an
;indraH vqtr;AZi
mahIyate s;omaH
y;adi viv;asvataH
pr;a vadanti
rUp;am vividuH
manAmahe ;ati
v;itatam ant;ar
aps;u mAmqje
kal;aze vAvazAn;aH
aB;i vats;am
eS;a ;indrAya
z;atrum aB;Itya
uz;antam aMz;um
vIray;A Az;avaH
asTAt s;Anu
D;iyaH v;i
svarj;it p;ari
;eti gavyay;uH
r;asam t;asmE
saty;am v;adan
Asate pr;a
pavase dev;eByaH
qt;A matIn;Am
saj;oSasaH v;izve
DAvati tir;aH
r;ADaH maG;onAm
B;uvaneSu jIv;ase
y;at Asu
y;at g;uhA
;aDa kSap;A
t;eBiH soma
;amqDraH sahasras;AH
h;arim h;arayaH
z;UragrAmaH s;arvavIraH
jah;i m;qDaH
srava qt;am
y;atra am;UH
z;akmanA As;adam
Az;iram punAn;aH
;avyam hitv;I
d;aDAnAH c;akSasi
iS;ayan ;upAvasuH
y;aH asm;aByam
;adriBiH ;indo
k;AvyA kav;iH
eS;a vizvav;it
vAvqDe zyen;ajUtaH
g;onAm ;indreZa
z;izuH mah;InAm
viSw;api manIS;iZaH
suvAn;aH giriSW;AH
s;omaH pav;itre
p;ayaH p;ayasA
aj;AzvaH pUS;A
ruc;e Bava
raTirAy;atAm uzat;I
DarZas;im B;UriDAyasam
nud;asva ;adevayum
apqkta r;asam
v;arma avyata
urucakr;e qSv;am
iva z;uBaH
h;otA r;AjA
vaD;EH vaDasno
s;u cet;unA
meSy:aH punAn;asya
pqcAn;aH tir;aH
t;anA t;am
naH ;araruSaH
r;uzantam gavy;uH
pavate p;ari
;avye m;adacyutaH
kavy;EH ;aDi
p;avamAnaH v;izvAni
samudr;aH praTam;e
n;i y;onA
nAv;A n;a
devAvy:am m;adam
d;aDat citr;atamam
;upa razm;im
somy;am m;aDu
v;qSAZam v;qSaBiH
;apa s;omaH
maMhase p;ajrAyAH
ant;arikSAt asqkSata
asi t;ava
pratn;At m;AnAt
;avye v;qSA
;Apat zl;okam
kqDi aB;i
p;azyan vqj;anA
;indrasya hqdaMs;aniH
k;anikradat ;anu
n;qBiH v;i
jAm;iBiH s;Uryam
s;UraH ;aZvam
k;anikradat D;armaZA
avy;ayA g;oBiH
avIvqDan p;avamAna
s;aKA s;aKyuH
s;omAH p;avamAnAsaH
s;omAH zukr;AH
many;um ;aCa
yat;aH s;Uryam
saty;amugrasya bqhat;aH
Diy;A yAti
DAvasi pUy;amAnaH
svaD;ayA d;Evyam
p;avamAna sv:ar
pqTivy;AH te
avy;aye v;qSA
p;atim z;UraH
cikradaH mah;aH
dev;aH ;amartyaH
dev;AH ;iti
D;ArayA v;qSA
;induH samudr;am
v;izvAH arSa
;aCa barh;iH
d;aza kS;ipaH
uttam;e sAsahy;Ama
z;UraH maG;A
ray;im v;qSan
s;Uryam viD;Are
pravqZv;antaH aBiy;ujaH
Ar;e bADasva
Diy;A yajY;am
DAmaD;AH asi
suvAn;AH dev;AsaH
sapt;a duduhAn;aH
jAt;aH ;ava
daDAtana amitrah;A
darzat;e uB;A
soma kal;azeSu
naH v;izvAH
m;adAya udagrAB;asya
sah;asraDAraH zat;avAjaH
arSati v;iprasya
t;u naH
v;ayasA punAn;aH
samudr;aH soma
t;amaH s;a
qt;asya y;onim
ty;am d;aza
sUr;iH ;anDasA
rAz;im p;ari
ayAsIt s;Idan
mIXv;An ;asuraH
Ut;iBiH ;aTa
;qSiH vrat;A
zuSm;I asiSyadat
u s;u
mah;aH pur;UZi
rakS;asaH pAti
pazuv;arDanAya m;anma
zukr;AsaH Danvanti
kal;aze sut;aH
pr;a s;omAya
dev;AnAm ;upa
zr;avAMsi pav;itreBiH
y;aH n;aryaH
dev;eByaH m;aDumattamam
y;atra avar;oDanam
st;avaH y;aTA
;Urjam v;asAnaH
y;atra jy;otiH
viGn;an r;akSAMsi
v;aneSu avyata
arSanti suSwut;im
pyAyasva pr;a
Gqt;avAnti sIda
v;izvAni dAz;uSaH
y;aH v;asUnAm
naH v;AjasAtaye
p;Urve pit;araH
t;am g;AvaH
n;a zazramuH
vasuv;it hiraZyav;it
D;ArayA ;atyaH
vidy;ut aBr;A
p;atiH ;indrAya
n;Qn stot;Qn
v;AjAya y;Atave
asya rakSati
dAD;Ara D;armaZaH
t;ava jy;otIMSi
kav;iH r;AjA
;ahinAmnAm hant;A
sut;AH ;anu
mat;ayaH vAvazAn;AH
marj;ayantaH ;aCa
t;ava v;izve
suvAn;aH nahuSy:eBiH
r;uzat Irte
Adad;e pqTivy;AH
aB;i te
v;Ajam siSAsasi
Aj;A viv;asvataH
usr;iyAH ;apyAH
Irate p;avamAnAH
yAt;ayan ant;ar
;ahan ;asazcuSI
z;Uram ud;amandiSuH
tanvate ;apa
suvit;asya manAmahe
;aDi ;A
navante ;ava
;astam v;qSagaZAH
purusp;qham p;avamAna
;aDi B;ava
sug;Ani ur;O
D;IraH uzat;e
zr;avasA s;adaH
v;qSavrataH v;qSA
DAvati pav;itre
;asya sp;azaH
c;Aru matsar;aH
prad;ivaH ;induH
p;avamAna b;ADase
y;at samudr;e
h;ariH ;AnItaH
kav;im kav;ayaH
asazc;ataH div;aH
asqkSata ;arvantaH
akSAr ;A
maMhate p;avasva
ant;arikSyA ;A
sut;AsaH aB;i
g;omantam azv;inam
g;omantam akSaran
tozase dev;An
vAy;um azv;inA
eS;a pratn;ena
k;e cit
vipany;uBiH p;avamAnaH
d;ivA saKy;Aya
viza s;am
tiSWati vqSaB;aH
amadan avasy;avaH
araT;AH ;ayuktAH
pqcy;ate sicy;ate
;adriBiH haryat;am
r;aTe yuYjanti
vicarSaZe praj;Avat
vAj;inam Aviz;an
j;AgqviH h;ariH
m;aDoH m;adasya
;ajuSwAn viDyati
madacy;ut kSeti
Biy;asam ;A
s;am tiSWa
;iti bruv;an
kal;aze g;oBiH
indo mah;e
ray;im aB;i
prav;at div;aH
praj;AvatIH c;atasraH
mah;e r;aZe
c;atasraH Im
sut;aH p;avasva
tv;am ha
pr;a tvA
v;izvAni h;i
;azayat s;amqtA
asqkSata y;e
saMjagmAn;aH div;aH
p;atiH div;aH
d;EvyaH darzat;aH
p;aruSA yayiv;An
par;aH y;UnA
;asarat B;ojanA
;aGnyAyAH ;induH
qt;e pavate
kav;iBiH nirZ;ijam
m;adAya z;umBase
trit;asya n;Ama
tv;otayaH ;indo
g;oBiH kal;azAn
v;aruZAya z;aMtamaH
v;qSA k;anikradat
soma yAhi
vqtraGn;e p;ari
baBr;avaH s;omAH
vqSw;iH p;avamAnaH
mitr;aH n;a
v;E u
dv;eSAMsi tarati
aryam;A p;ibanti
hiyAn;aH sot;qBiH
savitar pav;itreZa
sIdati s;a
sah;asrA mah;e
up;ariSwAt tujat;A
rocate punAn;aH
aMz;uH s;acamAnaH
s;omAH arSanti
g;aCantaH vAy;um
c;etasA ;arUrucat
zukr;am duhat;e
m;aDvaH siYcanti
sucet;unam ;A
paraz;uH nanAza
suvAn;aH h;ariH
svaD;ABiH h;ariH
uB;e dy;AvA
y;at rUp;A
amamat ;indrAya
punAn;aH ;azvaH
m;aDumattamaH ;indrasya
n;Ama jan;ayan
;aditiH s;inDuH
saMz;izAnaH v;izvA
m;qDaH r;Asva
naH ;indrAya
soma j;eSi
asazc;ataH tqt;Iye
z;arDAya vIt;aye
pAvak;aH pad;A
p;ari ayakSm;AH
asm;aByam rodasI
div;aH p;ari
sut;AH im;e
j;uSwaH m;adAya
marjayAmasi m;adaH
;indrasya yanti
z;uciH tv;am
kav;iH m;aDu
zr;avase mah;e
;azmanaH n;iH
dUr;At upanAy;am
m;aDumAn draps;aH
s;ana jy;otiH
kr;atvA t;ava
v;qSZyam n;i
indo Ut;iBiH
asya y;onO
sT;Am UrDv;aH
kar aB;Ikam
suk;qtam apIparan
r;AjA ;apyaH
m;adam sv;AdiSWam
D;iyaH mandray;uvaH
;indavaH ;indra
m;arjyam p;avamAnam
kS;AmaZi sT;Am
s;inDavaH y;at
s;omam vizv;AcyA
san;advAjaH p;ari
avasy;avaH mqj;anti
jam;adagninA p;avasva
t;e naH
s;a mAt;arA
;ati v;ArAZi
hit;am s;UraH
y;AH parisp;qDaH
svAd;uH Urm;iH
kr;Ixantam mimate
v;Ajam ut;a
pavase v;qSA
naH d;aDat
k;qtvyaH r;asaH
sahasras;AH pary;ayAH
v;izve saj;oSasaH
qgm;iZaH yay;uH
tanv:am avIvqDan
pr;a naH
v;Ajam indo
yemire pr;a
aBiy;ujaH s;uSvaye
vAj;inaH gavy;A
r;ajasaH v;iDarmaZi
anUSata h;arim
s;omaH sukqty;ayA
;adAByAsaH jan;uSI
asya s;a
maG;onaH ;A
asi tv;am
s;omAH aB;i
samasya naH
kr;Ixan Urm;iH
g;aBastyoH p;avate
n;u pr;a
zriy;e ay;am
naH aj;AzvaH
yUT;e vqSay;uH
mah;e soma
svarv;idaH s;omaH
;anDasA puSw;am-puSwam
;induH ;atyaH
s;inDuH pqTiv;I
v;i sukr;atuH
sut;aH pIt;aye
div;e-dive goS;AH
ant;ar v;AZISu
;indavaH pr;a
kSara tIvr;aH
sat;IH Urv;e
yuYjanti urucakr;e
vividuH manIS;iZaH
soma vizv;ataH
uS;asaH v;i
;A minan
n;qBiH ;adriBiH
Az;iram pUrvy;e
n;a yoS;itam
saMy;atam ;asAvi
sacate payov;qDA
pUS;A iva
m;adam madiSWa
m;aDumattamam h;arim
arSati aB;i
priy;Am n;a
jy;otiSA AvIt
te jAt;am
mah;e B;arAya
;atyAsaH n;a
b;iBratIH t;am
;ati D;ArayA
tIvr;aH saD;asTam
;indrasya vAy;oH
n;Ake suparZ;am
D;AmAni Aviz;an
devam;AdanaH kr;atuH
g;omataH ;A
it;aH vAy;ave
indo tAri
dvay;um ;aMhaH
svarv;ide B;uvanAni
j;eSAma samiT;e
mitr;aH vqj;aneSu
s;omAsaH aDanviSuH
v;asunaH sAdanasp;qzaH
priy;am ;indrasya
matIn;Am janit;A
suraB;intaraH sut;e
qZ;A ca
r;ohan n;a
hit;aH v;qSA
jy;ok naH
s;omam akSaran
;indre p;avamAnaH
h;otAraH qtv;ijaH
t;e sut;AsaH
D;armaZA vAy;um
zat;am p;uraH
;indrAya m;aDumattamam
pIt;A svarv;idaH
r;atnam ;A
pavate dev;aH
;A sah;asrAZi
s;omaH kal;aze
;ojasA p;avamAnaH
uttam;am r;ajaH
pur;ohitaH t;am
pratn;Am ;anu
qtAy;uBiH h;ariH
;indram y;AmeBiH
;atyAsaH k;qtvyAH
n;AsatyA iva
m;adAya B;UrZaye
sah;asraDAre ;ava
;ajItaye ;ahataye
B;ava v;AjAnAm
sud;qzIkaH arZav;aH
Apir;e dev;AnAm
indo suv;Iryam
jaW;are k;anikradat
sah;asraBarZasam tuvidyumn;am
Iraya ray;im
z;arDaH n;a
;UDaBiH parisr;utam
amqta m;artyeSu
pr;a m;eDiraH
barhiS;adaH vacan;AvantaH
s;a r;oruvat
;At s;omaH
yatAn;aH ;A
pavamAna Candasy:Am
;utsam vIr;am
yAcatAt s;a
;adevayum j;anam
s;am navante
pipy;uSI D;ArA
qgm;iyaH Atmanv;at
;atyam mqjanti
vAsayiSy;ase samudr;aH
pavate nqc;akSasaH
naH indo
vizvavAra sUkt;Aya
iva svan;aH
;indram j;EtrAya
mah;An mitr;aH
p;avamAnaH man;O
qc;A z;ocantaH
zukr;AH qt;asya
ajyase v;i
s;AnO aMz;um
soma dev;avItaye
ugr;aH riZ;an
ApAn;AsaH viv;asvataH
;adabDaH v;aruZaH
pr;a dev;am
punAn;am aB;i
vAj;inaH p;ari
san;aye hiyAn;aH
pavasva vqjin;asya
te d;ivA
ay;am dev;eSu
Gqt;asnuH sud;qzIkaH
punAtu naH
tuviSv;aZi ;indrAya
ut;a u
n;a pr;azastiBiH
s;a vqtrah;A
;upa Im
tv;am indo
mamire asya
mqjy;amAnaH k;anikradat
vipazc;itaH s;omAsaH
indo nqS;AH
uzat;I p;uraMDiH
g;avAm prad;ivaH
te n;qbAh;uByAm
napty:oH hit;aH
tv;otayaH eS;a
Ad;aDAnaH aB;i
niv;acanAni z;aMsan
ay;am s;a
aYjAn;aH arSati
zl;okayantrAsaH raBas;asya
m;qDaH ;apa
z;iraH s;am
jarit;qByaH ;A
vrat;A vidAn;aH
arSati DarZas;iH
yuvate v;evijAnaH
zr;avase sumaVg;alaH
ukTy:aH ;avyaH
v;Ajam ;aCa
priy;am duhit;uH
;anDasaH t;arat
yAti haryat;aH
Ar;aBe saty;asya
div;aH asy;a
Urm;iH van;anAH
t;antavaH v;i
IzAn;aH im;A
;indavaH paT;A
;arSa soma
v;arZam n;i
s;omaH v;astrA
akramIt pratn;am
kqp;A s;omAH
;induH qtv;iyaH
vqjin;asya hant;A
dr;uZA saD;asTam
aB;i im;am
n;Avam ;A
parisr;utam usr;iyAH
y;aH tvA
soma qj;uH
n;aktam ut;a
s;omaH hinvAn;aH
rAy;e h;ariH
akrAn yajat;aH
gahi sr;akve
m;aDumantaH Urm;ayaH
;avInAm ;azvayA
Ayan v;aram
z;izum n;a
s;omaH pavate
sUkt;Aya v;acase
rocate g;iraH
agn;iH ;qSiH
y;A te
pav;itre matsar;aH
p;ayaH b;aBro
y;aH aDy;eti
j;ujoSate p;ari
aDvary;avaH raTir;AsaH
m;ahi im;e
m;aDumattamAH s;omAH
p;atiH p;avamAna
v;asAnaH zr;avase
haryat;aH kav;iH
Ad;aDat p;atiH
asy;a pIt;A
pav;itram p;ari
;ati ;avyam
p;itryAvatI vAy;um
s;aKye gAtuv;ittamaH
vAj;inaH t;anA
z;uSmaH Bavatu
s;inDUnAm pavate
sUn;oH vats;asya
j;AyamAnaH mqjAn;aH
asy;a p;ariSUtiH
gaCatu te
n;idaM-nidam pavamAna
ArjIk;eSu k;qtvasu
qj;um ca
devay;uH ;A
r;odasI yakSat
;ataH v;izvAH
d;aza v;ane
sah;asrapAjasaH gqZAn;AH
aBizastip;AH ;indrAya
vivakti m;ahivrataH
sut;aH sah;asraDAraH
svAB;uvam s;omaH
et;e u
pr;a avatam
s;inDavaH j;uSwaH
nasate vIt;e
dqz;e c;Arum
pavate g;onyoGAH
;iSaH et;am
naH g;iraH
v;izvA v;asu
varDantu naH
n;i z;aryAZi
;indo v;izvAni
punIt;ana s;omam
s;am agr;uvaH
;upa sarji
sasav;An ;A
jAyate samIcIn;AH
im;e pavamAna
aB;i sah;asraZItiH
duduhAn;aH Az;iram
v;asyasaH kqDi
pad;am n;avIyaH
g;AH ihi
;avyayAni p;avyayA
h;ave ;A
pqTivy;E z;am
mat;ayaH p;anipnatam
arazm;AnaH y;e
v;iSZave tisr;aH
carSaZ;IH aB;i
aBarat t;am
;AhitaH t;am
c;iketa y;at
AVgUSy:am p;avamAnam
;A dade
pIt;aye s;a
paT;iBiH k;anikradat
v;iDarmaZi p;avamAna
vAy;um ;indram
jIv;ase anindy;aH
p;ArTivam ray;im
nqc;akSAH r;AjA
samary;e ;A
;induH m;atsi
r;aMhyA suSvAZ;aH
gqZat;e niy;utvAn
s;am ;induH
p;arSi r;ADaH
veD;asaH p;avamAna
;indraH saj;oSasaH
uttam;aH aB;i
asvaran hinvat;IH
t;am Imahe
r;oruvat r;AjA
pr;a pipye
;atke avyata
aYjAn;aH akt;uBiH
samudr;e ;A
t;apasA sut;aH
pavamAna DIj;uvaH
DqSZo ;A
maG;am Dart;A
v;ipraH puraet;A
;ut te
m;anaH ;indrAya
pun;antu v;asavaH
pavate y;am
y;at y;am
p;avamAnAH asqgran
h;i naH
;indram ;A
svaD;ayoH apIcy:am
br;ahma-brahma y;e
;Apyam vasur;ucaH
s;adane g;arBam
Im qt;asya
Gn;antaH vqtr;AZi
janit;A sud;akSaH
zUS;e m;A�zcatve
y;e s;omAsaH
kave ark;asya
sIdata punAn;Aya
;aCa am;At
y;aH qSik;qt
;indrasya niSkqt;am
h;are sqjAn;aH
tqt;Iyam ;aDi
gqBZ;Ati rip;um
v;AZIH ;qSIZAm
n;i pAti
;A r;ajaH
tv;am asya
matsar;aH nud;asva
v;AjAn aB;i
iva zUS;aH
daD;e m;adeSu
vayy:am suSaMs;adam
dev;aH v;i
s;am rUp;EH
gAt;um Azata
divy;eSu D;Amasu
bqhat;IH ;iSaH
n;avyase t;ava
k;AvyA tv;am
DArayaH dev;eByaH
aBizr;iyaH h;arim
soma vqtrah;A
suzilp;e bqhat;I
soma suzr;iyam
;qkvA paT;iBiH
;ahnaH pratarIt;A
s;adaneSu sIdati
n;ava p;uraH
v;Aram v;i
p;avamAnaH k;anikradat
mqjanti Ay;avaH
Urm;ayaH t;arturAZAH
r;AjA ;aDa
s;asniH y;aH
Diy;AvasuH jagamyAt
te D;ArAH
dev;avItaye ;avyaH
pavase matsar;intamaH
dev;AnAm g;uhyAni
vazmi pavamAna
v;i zazraTe
pad;am asya
n;a v;arma
n;araH s;omam
tr;IZi trit;asya
triD;AtuH B;uvanAni
arSasi zyen;aH
hav;iH daDanv;An
sAsah;iH ;aTa
m;anum d;asyave
t;An ;upa
raTy:am ap;aH
m;anasA devay;antaH
pAti j;AgqviH
rocayat ay;am
n;a y;oSaZAm
jy;otiH ajIjanat
nEgut;aH v;asUni
agriy;aH mah;IH
id;am uttam;Ayyam
v;Ajavat sut;aH
pavate tv;am
t;am ganDarv;AH
ant;ar pav;itre
;ahaBiH y;aH
ruc;A h;ariZyA
suv;Iryam ;indrasya
viza pUy;amAnaH
hqd;e pavate
;induH pr;a
;aZvam v;i
te BIm;Ani
;upa jrayati
v;ipreBiH ;qkvaBiH
bADasva duC;unAm
d;akSaH dev;AnAm
n;Anadat eti
punAn;aH br;ahmaZA
zqt;AsaH ;it
jAr;aH aB;igItaH
soma matsar;aH
n;a mqSw;aH
et;e pqSW;Ani
pav;itram arciv;at
yuj;A napt;IBiH
ant;ar ;azmanaH
rAy;aH Dart;A
tr;I soma
y;adi m;anasaH
D;ArayA dev;eSu
;A y;asmin
s;omaH yAti
suDAr;AH h;ariH
duSw;aram y;aH
vAj;I rocan;A
an;ayA h;ariH
iSit;aH aB;i
indo m;adAya
d;akSeZa m;anasA
dev;eBiH s;am
samIcIn;e aB;i
punItana ugr;am
iyAn;aH s;omaH
n;avIyaH akramuH
;azvaH n;a
ca v;izvA
g;avAm p;oSam
h;arim navante
arSa divy;Am
v;izvA d;aDAnaH
v;Ajam arSasi
niSkqt;am ;indrAya
avasiSwa v;AsaH
zrIZ;an ugr;aH
s;UryaH agn;iH
v;arZam B;aramAZaH
Damanti mAy;ayA
eti g;AH
n;a sAnas;iH
s;OBagA ;aTa
sIdata p;ari
dyumn;Ani m;AnuSAZAm
mah;An kav;iH
r;odasI antar;A
v;qSA v;qSZe
g;omantam ;A
mAdayitn;ave ;apa
mah;InAm hinv;an
pavamAna naH
tvA m;aDumattamam
up;asTe ;aditeH
net;A matIn;Am
;apa ;adevam
v;Ajasya sAt;aye
p;ariSkqtaH v;iprasya
B;uvat ;indrAya
pUrvy;aH kav;iH
akramIt s;IdantaH
y;azaH ;iSaH
;anDasaH m;artaH
d;ohate tr;iH
kav;iH sIda
t;A v;i
navante adr;uhaH
pav;itram pariy;an
v;AtAH iva
yAsi razm;iBiH
s;aKAyaH dIrGajihvy:am
D;iyaH et;am
y;at sv:arZaram
ut;a asaran
marjayanta sv;asAraH
BakSat kany:Asu
z;aMtamaH asm;aByam
ras;A iva
ant;arikSam v;izve
s;omAsaH vipazc;itaH
m;adAsaH gAt;um
Barat s;am
sUkt;Aya sADaya
pqTiv;Im iva
srava dyum;antam
apaGn;an pavate
m;adaH y;asya
zr;avaH pr;a
k;anikradat aB;i
v;izvAn rakS;asaH
purusp;qham gir;A
dev;eByaH pIt;aye
dy;AvApqTiv;I vizvaminv;e
m;adaH s;omasya
zakun;am kS;AmaZi
aB;i dr;oZAni
d;akSAya s;ADanaH
varivov;it Gqt;am
;indram mahat;e
yat;aH v;i
aBimAtih;A r;AjA
;ava dr;oZAni
v;Aryam pr;a
ray;im tv;am
svAd;uH ;indrAya
;apa vraj;am
;A vAvazAn;AH
c;etanam div;aH
ucyate s;omaH
;agre v;aruZasya
zravasy;A aB;i
zr;avase sAt;im
;indavaH ;ApaH
B;uvanAni ;amartyaH
v;izvA c;akSAZaH
;A aB;i
dvay;IBiH sv;asqBiH
p;qtanAsu z;atrUn
t;anayAni B;Uri
DanaMjaya prayant;A
;azUzuBan am;qtAya
g;AH iva
naH ;ojasA
upast;iram ;indrAya
saty;am vqSan
soma jaW;are
punAn;aH tir;aH
vA v;aDatre
kAr;iZe n;a
avrat;am zqZv;e
dev;An s;aKiByaH
sut;am g;iraH
tv;am t;ava
goS;AH u
ca y;aH
mAd;ayan d;Evyam
te v;aze
Danva v;AjasAtaye
aMz;uH pary;eti
manIS;AH Irate
paptima mqjy;amAnaH
jaG;anat ca
giriSW;AH pav;itre
jah;i z;atrUn
ap;asaH manIS;iZaH
tv;am suSvAZ;aH
aznAti svadit;am
yaz;asaH j;ane
c;AruZaH y;ena
;asi maG;avA
;indrasya saKy;am
n;a vidy;ut
z;uSmam indo
;azvam n;a
v;aze tv;am
m;adAya G;qSvaye
n;qDUtaH ;adriSutaH
tv;Am soma
hiraZyaj;it svarj;it
g;uhA cit
vrat;am mah;aH
viza bqhat;A
sah;asraZITaH zat;aDAraH
p;AntaH dakSas;ADanam
dev;avItaye ut;a
mqjyate suk;armaBiH
te saKy;e
dev;An ajuSata
p;atiH p;avamAnaH
te v;itatam
t;at n;u
uS;AH s;UryaH
DAray;uH mandr;aH
tveS;AH ay;AsaH
mqjy;ate pit;A
s;a mand;I
n;Ama d;aDAnaH
hit;e st;avE
;asya c;akSasA
mAt;araH ;indram
aBivr;ajan ;akSitam
yuj;A s;omAH
matsar;aH d;aDAnaH
sOmanas;am naH
m;aDvaH r;asena
v;AryA s;aKA
zyen;aH v;arma
kavIn;Am p;avasva
sut;aH Druv;e
puruS;antyoH ;A
srava y;at
;agre v;Ajasya
aryam;aZA B;agaH
asasqgram ;ahnAm
har;itaH vqSw;im
sqSw;AH aheSata
peyAH kr;atve
qt;asya DIt;im
cam;USu aB;i
D;ArayA kave
kSeti s;Adane
te ant;ar
yayiv;An ;ati
;anDasaH dev;AH
tv;ayA h;i
mat;iBiH j;ujoSate
rip;um niD;ayA
jy;otiH y;at
kr;andan ihi
s;UraH pazyati
pr;ayasvAn pr;ayase
praj;Am urAZ;aH
b;iBrat purusp;qham
;agan Aj;im
dev;aH ;aditiH
v;ahnim ady;a
Ar;e asm;at
asqkSata pqTivy;AH
;asiSyadanta g;AvaH
vy:aktaH aruS;aH
;aBayam ca
mam;e yamy:A
ap;Am n;a
s;Idan zyen;aH
v;acase v;ayaH
D;ArayA yajY;eSu
bqhat;e t;at
pAvamAn;IH y;aH
Danvanti s;omAH
cakradat h;ariH
ah;am soma
pr;ayAMsi ray;im
Azata hit;AH
pr;a asAviSuH
mitr;Aya v;aruZAya
jAm;im apaGn;an
D;ArayA mat;I
hiraZy;ayam As;adam
v;eH n;a
dev;AH p;avamAnam
deva savitar
ut;a zrIZ;anti
v;iSZave v;qSAZam
pr;a v;Ajam
devAH sv;AhAkqtim
sikt;aH juSwv;I
p;avamAnAH svard;qzaH
eS;a s;Uryam
vqSw;im naH
putr;aH oZy:oH
sam;atsu sAsah;iH
pr;azastiBiH s;omAsaH
D;IrAH daz;aBiH
tvA vay;am
m;aDunA aB;i
mah;I qtAv;qDA
Den;avaH duduhre
D;amataH s;am
r;akSAMsi apaj;aVGanat
v;ayaH daDe
zakun;aH viB;qtvA
;anDasA makS;UtameBiH
barh;iH ;A
t;AnvA zudD;aH
y;atra brahm;A
ca m;udaH
pav;itram D;ArayA
v;qSA k;anikrat
p;avamAnaH asiSyadat
jigatn;um ;ixAvatIm
;avye ;ava
Anaz;uH eS;a
g;amat ;indram
pavasva v;arivAMsi
aMz;uBiH p;atiH
eti mar;utAm
vaD;ena y;e
sug;A tok;Aya
As;ani p;avamAnaH
s;adane cam;USu
darSat udr;iZam
aB;i gAyata
;aGnyAH ut;a
gAhate ap;Am
ca sv;adasva
pavate k;Amyam
v;aruZAya ca
dy;uBiH h;iraZyavantam
kqZv;an sAmany:aH
naH g;omatIH
pav;itram pariD;Avasi
s;omAH ;indrAya
pavate pUrvy;aH
sut;aH v;izvA
iSyate ;upa
prayant;A r;ADasaH
ray;im ca
v;iw ;ApaH
n;iH BAk
aB;i pr;a
dr;aviZam d;aDAnaH
govind;uH draps;aH
in;asya y;aH
saKy;Aya k;artave
;indradviSwAm ;apa
s;omAH qt;asya
ur;avaH parj;anyasya
trinAk;e tridiv;e
vid;e n;ayan
;indavaH ;atyAH
pUrv;IH ;iSaH
h;astEH duduhuH
;eSi s;Anavi
;induH p;ari
suv;IrAsaH vay;am
m;aDu mandr;AjanI
mahiS;am n;a
matsar;am asy;a
y;asya te
y;eBiH ;arvataH
D;ArAH asya
priy;am vakt;A
niMsate sah;asraZITaH
svarv;it ;induH
jaG;Ana p;ibanti
;A haryat;Aya
s;omaH dugD;ABiH
cit aB;i
mandr;asya rUp;am
Azata ut;a
aDvar;e purusp;qham
s;am sravanti
;it asi
avy;ayA h;ariH
ay;am v;icarSaZiH
ark;am ;it
As;adam kav;iH
;iSuH n;a
p;ari yanti
jam;adagninA hinvAn;aH
k;azyapa udvarD;ayan
nivez;e dvip;ade
d;aza s;UraH
asy;a B;uvanasya
pavate p;atiH
naH pit;araH
s;adasi sIdati
barh;iSi h;ariH
suvrat;aH g;iraH
soma rirIhi
ant;arikSeZa y;Atave
AK;um cit
mAmqj;e y;uvA
aB;i ;arSati
p;avamAnAH aB;i
ihi ut;a
s;anIxABiH daz;aBiH
y;aH v;ane
d;ivaH duhuH
p;avamAna suv;Iryam
p;avasva vizv;adarzataH
aB;i priy;am
nqc;akSasaH qt;asya
aryam;A dev;aH
Izata ;indo
vasAy;ate niriZAn;aH
zakun;aH y;aTA
vay;am ;iyakSantaH
dyum;attamaH aB;i
asmay;uH eS;a
h;Ardi Aviz;an
;ati ;aZvAni
deva dev;atAte
div;aH y;atra
d;itsantam ;A
pav;itre s;argaH
Druv;am ray;im
ant;ar ;A
z;arDan t;amAMsi
naH arSa
jAyate kav;iH
B;uvanAni praTanta
v;andyaH pr;a
asya mAy;ayA
dev;aH devI
b;iBrataH n;amaH
v;iprAya r;atnam
divisp;qzam antarikSapr;AH
p;atvA s;omaH
ay;A vIt;I
ac;itaH aca
y;Atave ;induH
g;iraH ;asqgram
niSkqt;am s;aKA
;qSIZAm sapt;a
s;a pUrvy;aH
;A v;aram
k;ASWAm vAj;inaH
suvAn;aH sot;qBiH
cit atr;iZam
D;anAnAm v;qSA
D;Ama z;uciH
duhe kSIr;am
priy;AZi pavate
h;ariH d;adqze
nenikt;e aps;u
v;Are avy;aye
v;asu s;omAH
s;aniSanta naH
y;e vA
dAt ut;a
pad;e reBanti
g;aviSwiSu ;indrasya
mayoB;uvam et;Ani
tvA v;qTA
ajIjanat aB;i
m;adAya k;am
g;aBastyoH p;avante
n;a kradaH
dv;iSaH ;indo
v;qSan;Ama zUS;e
;A aBarat
te ;utsaH
kS;arat v;izvAni
iva p;itryAvatI
Aviz;an tv;am
satr;AcA m;anasA
y;onO ;aDi
Ad;aDat y;AH
p;anipnatam gir;A
g;oBiH BaVg;am
sut;aH d;aDAnaH
barh;iH razan;ABiH
pariSw;oBantyA kqp;A
iva zur;uDaH
ca matsar;aH
arSanti n;amasA
dev;Aya devay;u
n;a Den;uBiH
aB;i ;A
sah;a s;a
niSkqt;am p;avamAnam
suv;IrAH pr;a
sut;am s;omam
arSati kqZv;an
trit;asya y;oSaZaH
asm;aByam k;Amyam
;ava pariD;In
kav;iH qt;asya
s;OBagA ;indo
tvA mqj;anti
uB;e aprAH
siSAsati p;avamAnaH
DqSZ;ave D;anuH
;asqgram ;indavaH
soma mAd;ayan
vipazc;it kr;andan
p;avante v;Are
dy;OH ca
ca m;atsi
;indrAya m;aDumattamaH
marmqjy;ante apasy;uvaH
;A jihv;AyAH
v;Ajam s;aptiH
soma kratuv;it
;A mandr;am
pUt;aH kS;arat
;AyuDA g;aBastyoH
triD;Atu m;aDu
nqc;akSasaH pit;araH
svarv;idam BakSIm;ahi
jAm;ayaH marjayanti
v;iDarmaZi ;aTa
haryat;am mqjanti
uS;asaH B;agam
pqYc;an ;induH
n;a s;argAH
iva d;ohate
;ava mehanti
Im jAm;ayaH
g;avyUtim ;aBayam
;A BakSat
soma raZyaj;it
vAj;inam Urjayanti
indo div;e-dive
s;a vAj;I
h;ariH s;attA
z;izIte yUTy:aH
;ahiH n;a
mandr;am ;A
;adButaH gqBZ;Ati
am;qtAya mah;e
Bava naH
yaMsat s;a
soma pUrB;it
vqSaB;am payov;qDam
vidaH v;asu
z;atrUn k;anikranti
kSIr;am sarp;iH
mah;AnAm dev;AnAm
dev;An ;anu
jaG;Ana jaG;anat
jiGnate yuj;A
maKasy;uvaH y;at
n;aktam qjr;aH
y;adi pav;itre
DAt;qBiH p;ari
aBikS;aranti D;ArayA
s;am gaCate
barh;iSmAn ;A
agraj;Am gop;Am
;induH azastih;A
eS;a hit;aH
azizrayuH ;A
Anet;A y;aH
aB;i tm;anA
avyata maG;onaH
yahv;IH qt;asya
y;aH tasT;O
zuSm;I kal;azeSu
;ahnAm B;uvaneSu
purum;eDaH cit
Buvat rayip;atI
r;omAZi avy;ayA
aB;i rakSati
aps;u ;acikradat
roha D;armaZA
kqZoti barh;iSi
p;Atave vqtraGn;e
aB;i arSanti
arSati ;avye
yanti niSkqt;am
rihanti m;aDunA
mqxa jIv;ase
punAn;aH indray;uH
r;akSaH b;ADate
;asarji eS;a
;indavaH sut;AH
asiSyadat kav;iH
;etazaH tv;am
v;Acam jan;aya
pratir;an naH
pariprasy;andate sut;aH
pqSW;am azvay;uH
daz;aBiH suk;armaBiH
ayAsiSuH t;am
naH ap;Am
hem;anA pUy;amAnaH
t;ava pr;azastayaH
punAn;aH v;izvA
gaZ;am v;izvasya
qt;am Barat
v;izvAH ;arSan
asya h;arim
I g;AvaH
n;a t;qSZA
B;ara soma
indo p;ArTivam
r;asena tv;ayA
mqg;aH n;a
mqjyate s;AnO
n;a d;Anam
vadema vid;aTe
p;ari y;at
aBavaH mah;An
cakqS;e tv;am
;adabDaH p;ari
z;izum s;omam
;At ;it
;ati eti
n;ayan qt;asya
arSa punAn;aH
jajY;e vIr;uDAm
puruB;USu n;avyaH
udr;iZam ;aDa
ukSit;aH ;indrasya
antar;A kave
y;ayA jy;otiH
aB;i arSa
n;a v;oXA
kal;azam sut;aH
n;Avam dev;aH
santu r;ajasi
pav;itram arc;iSi
dvit;A vyUrZv;an
s;omaH mAd;ayan
hit;aH p;avamAnaH
n;qBiH soma
ca sukrato
mat;I v;iprAH
vay;am pav;itram
soma pit;araH
dakSas;ADanam y;aH
paZIn;Am vidaH
eS;a v;asUni
pav;itre ;A
jarit;uH varDaya
Bara p;avamAna
s;omAH ;ati
saty;amanmA aB;i
adBy;aH ;adAByaH
sunve y;aH
v;Acam mat;iBiH
ADUnvat;e ca
mAt;araH punAn;aH
p;ibanti v;arunaH
paT;aH kqZuhi
vAG;at vAG;adBiH
varivov;idaH svay;am
arSasi marmqjy;amAnaH
;ABqtam div;aH
dyAvApqTivI pr;a
sneh;ayat ca
sut;aH D;ArayA
m;arjyaH t;am
suSvAZ;aH pavate
vay;am D;anAni
;A eS;a
gaCate kal;aze
;AsInAH ant;ar
z;azvatA t;anA
ps;arase devap;AnaH
sup;ezasaH daDn;A
k;anikrat arSati
p;ariSkqtaH v;AjAn
h;i sm;asi
pavate mad;intamaH
;aDi s;Anavi
m;imIte asya
sqja punIh;i
n;aBasA v;epate
g;oBiH zrIZAn;aH
DAvati ;indrasya
j;anam s;am
s;Uryam ;A
vip;Am ;agre
r;asaH ;asarji
tisr;aH v;AcaH
z;atrum antik;e
te pav;itre
viza y;asya
sAnas;im v;ajram
ut;a sv;asyAH
asazc;ataH ;asya
naH Danvantu
m;adaH y;aH
dev;eByaH sut;aH
z;ambaram ;aDa
t;AH upaSw;ut
akt;uBiH ;indo
;anu pratn;AsaH
v;arDa samudr;am
dev;AsaH zqZ;avan
acikradat n;qBiH
asTAt vqSaB;aH
punAn;AH DAvata
Az;avaH v;qSacyutAH
pqZa uS;AH
y;ojanam pr;a
Aviz;an kal;azam
;AzvinIH pavamAna
pIt;aye et;am
zr;avaH s;am
sAk;am pr;a
mqjAn;aH v;Are
B;uvat trit;asya
devayUn;Am asy;a
kqZv;an vqj;anasya
astu y;atra
;A vacyasva
p;avasva maMhay;adrayiH
pavamAna soma
kav;iH v;qSA
vizv;ataH p;atiH
zraT;ayan svAdate
s;eDan r;akSAMsi
mat;iBiH kavIn;Am
;Apyam bqh;at
jIr;AH ajir;azociSaH
te B;arAya
samudr;iyAH ap;aH
Gqt;e pr;a
hiyAn;aH aB;i
vizvav;it m;anasaH
;A indo
asi vizvav;it
ugr;am d;akSAya
p;ari d;EvIH
;qSiH v;iprAZAm
hiraZy;ayaH duhAn;aH
v;i UrZute
zarmay;antyA D;ArayA
yajY;asya sapt;a
qtv;ijaH dev;AH
ap;Am net;A
ev;a punAn;aH
s;omAH pavante
vid;e aB;i
qt;asya praz;iSaH
punAn;aH camv:oH
z;am pavasva
Urm;im n;a
kav;im mqjanti
v;ayAMsi napty:oH
mah;aH div;aH
z;AdeSu gaCati
;induH siSakti
ahAsata qt;asya
Bavasi DAs;iH
punAn;aH kal;azAn
r;akSAMsi ;apa
t;antum acikradaH
tan;USu ;A
sut;asya ;ojasA
asmE j;oSam
pipye ;UDar
saty;e v;iDarman
p;aYca sv;ayazasam
s;aKA s;aKiByaH
duhat;e p;qznimAtaraH
sicyate pav;itre
ut;a ty;AH
amqtatv;am Ayan
y;at g;oBiH
k;oze ;A
soma pariSicy;amAnaH
AD;qSe p;avamAnasya
sup;aTAni y;ajyave
arSasi s;Idan
;it Urm;ayaH
punAn;aH dev;aH
;aBakta y;at
h;ariH arSa
;apracetasaH aB;i
sota p;ari
aty;eSi ;avyAn
p;arA vy:aktaH
n;a pavate
iSit;aH tir;aH
;indum rihanti
tuYjAn;aH ;AyuDA
t;ava im;AH
;adAByaH p;avasva
et;e mqSw;AH
saty;A samiT;A
;ojasA vic;akSAZaH
z;azvat t;at
pr;azastayaH mah;IH
z;arDAya matsar;am
D;ArayA t;eBiH
v;arivaH svastim;at
;ayohatam dr;uZA
r;atnam svaD;ayoH
pavasva svast;aye
v;apuSaH v;apuSwaraH
g;iraH arSanti
;avye yaz;astaraH
h;ariH s;adaH
p;uraMDivAn m;anuSaH
gqZat;e v;asUni
;A punAn;aH
punAn;Aya praBUvaso
;qSiH v;ipraH
;anDaH dev;avAtam
s;UryaH tv;am
stot;Qn pAhi
v;izvA p;ArTivA
iva DqSZo
D;armaBiH p;atiH
pr;a k;Avyam
b;ADamAnaH m;qDaH
D;ArayA in;u
eS;a s;UryeZa
nirZ;ijam haryat;aH
punIhi naH
ruc;A aB;i
kqZute n;aBaH
;arZasA aMz;oH
ay;AsaH ;akramuH
yajY;asya r;aMhyA
s;Urye s;acA
s;iSAsan vAjas;AH
sv:ar jajYAn;aH
t;Ani te
soma m;adAmasi
razm;iBiH p;ari
z;izum n;avam
p;avasva s;UryaH
r;odasI harSate
Danva soma
arIta t;An
svAyuD;asya te
uB;e sady;aH
carSaZIs;ahe s;asniH
u azvas;AH
m;adAya aB;i
asmay;uH aB;i
g;onAm eS;a
eti n;ityam
z;atroH soma
anUSata g;oBiH
soma r;ADase
samany:A v;asAnaH
s;am u
daDiSe v;qSZaH
m;aDumAn c;AruH
div;aH t;am
m;adaH eS;a
;A ray;im
p;ari sicyate
man;otA praTam;aH
maMhay;adrayiH tv;am
Buvat ;aDa
div;i t;am
vizvaminv;e aryam;A
saMj;ayan p;avasva
sacate s;a
v;ajraH vqSaB;aH
m;aDumat suv;Iryam
v;AjAn m;atsi
pr;ati yanti
v;qSA z;oZaH
savit;A suy;amA
s;omaH sah;asraDAraH
n;ediSWatamAH iS;aH
p;ayaH g;ojIrayA
Iraya g;AH
priy;AZi k;AvyA
apaGn;antaH ;arAvZaH
B;agam m;aDvaH
s;aKA ;indrasya
;aDi n;Ake
jaW;areSu Aviz;an
;aDa y;at
n;a yUT;e
D;ArayA y;ayA
soma d;asyoH
vAj;inam v;ane
;ixAnAm s;omaH
vAj;inaH s;argAH
j;anAya z;am
aB;i ray;im
;induH dev;AnAm
t;am vaH
;asireZa mqjy;ate
vim;AnaH r;ajasaH
s;a dev;aH
;indram v;qSaZam
g;AH s;am
p;avamAnaH r;uzat
janit;A matIn;Am
srava s;oma
ajIjanat kqSZ;A
sukrato apaGn;an
yaz;astaraH yaz;asAm
matsar;avAn hinvAn;aH
dqX;A v;i
samary;e kqD;i
uB;e s;am
tv;ayA vIr;eZa
sup;aTA sug;Ani
svan;aH jAn;an
n;a p;Urve
siYcanti harmy;asya
samudr;aH aps;u
;indrAya ;indum
cam;USu sIdati
s;a tv;am
akramIt sasav;An
v;AreBiH arSati
BaVg;am p;ariSkqtam
par;aH zakun;AH
n;a g;oSu
;anu dy;uBiH
yuv;am h;i
r;odasI v;i
;iSaH dAH
asadat d;aDat
p;ari te
kav;ikratuH sah;asrotiH
gata vAy;uH
apatasT;uSaH Biy;asam
iSyati samudr;asya
n;a jUt;aH
pavasva sahasr;iZam
t;at s;am
viDyati kart;e
sapt;a DIt;ayaH
y;aH ;indrasya
iyarti praj;AvatIH
asy;a vaH
naH ukTy:am
p;ari suvAn;aH
eS;a s;omaH
rocan;A div;aH
n;a h;etAraH
g;iraH ;indrAya
;indraH ;iti
vAy;ave sut;am
p;ayasA D;arImaZi
yay;uH pr;a
iva zravasy;A
pavasva D;ArayA
h;ariH v;Ajam
n;a niSW;AH
adButa s;a
v;iSZave svAd;uH
svan;aH vAZ;asya
pavate ;iti
ant;arikSeZa r;Arajat
rayIZ;Am c;iketa
qt;asya ;iyarti
vAc;aH p;atiH
vIry:am punAn;AsaH
svAn;AsaH r;aTAH
triD;Atu vAraZ;am
g;iraH zumBanti
v;Ajavat m;aDumat
;indo y;at
m;aDumAn qt;AvA
;aBayAni kqZv;an
qSiS;Aw avIvazat
qt;asya suzr;iyaH
asy;a vrat;e
aB;i vAsayAmasi
;utsaH gqZat;e
vacasyate Diy;aH
sv;asAraH Im
n;a y;uDvA
;A ;A
j;AgqviH ;indrAya
n;Ake m;aDujihvAH
Azata t;apoH
s;oma v;arDanti
p;avamAna Diy;A
apt;uram s;omam
sahasr;iZam p;avamAnAsaH
Bavati nirZ;ik
r;aTyaH yaTA
n;a h;i
vizv;adarzataH sah;asrayAmA
;A y;aH
yajY;EH p;ari
DAvanti Den;avaH
yajY;iyaH ;atyaH
parisr;utam s;omam
z;qVge g;AH
r;asena ;indrAya
indray;uH y;avaM-yavam
pur;ojitI vaH
ras;AyyaH p;ayasA
kal;azeSu sIdasi
vizv;ataH et;am
m;aDoH D;ArAH
p;ari pav;itre
niZy;e v;izve
s;omaH s;ukqtam
daD;uH pur;A
cit ;ojIyAn
pIt;aye madacy;ut
yat;aH pr;a
pavasva sahasras;AH
;A v;ipram
m;ama sT;ana
kal;azAn acikradat
r;asaH t;ava
v;asUni dAz;uSe
eSi vizv;ataH
svay;ugvaBiH D;ArA
;asqgram v;AjasAtaye
v;izvAn aB;i
n;iH g;AH
s;u pr;a
DAH nqc;akSasam
kav;iH nqmZ;A
n;iH aDukSata
s;omaH cam;USu
qt;Aya pavate
kav;iH ajyase
;aditiH viDAt;A
p;aYca vr;AtAH
d;aMsasA s;a
c;Aru priy;atamam
jAt;am n;a
pavasva vAjay;uH
div;aH p;avamAnaH
st;uBaH y;aH
;anu dy;utam
r;aZe ;ApaH
c;anohitaH praroc;ayan
skamB;aH div;aH
;atyaH n;a
oZy:oH r;asam
pipyatam D;iyaH
parisp;qDaH ay;A
;aTa u
Gqtad;uhaH sacante
j;invan k;ozam
c;etante dasyut;arhaZA
ut;a m;artyAnAm
avrat;An ;indradviSwAm
yahv;I qt;asya
mqjanti pav;itre
Urm;iH vAjas;aniH
v;qSA tripqSW;aH
aB;i pazyati
pavasva sOmanas;am
pr;a kav;iH
g;ave DukS;asva
acod;asaH naH
ca D;armaBiH
s;aptiH s;amanA
dAt;A ;asi
g;oBiH aYjate
vIra vIry:Aya
sarpati tv;acam
n;ABA param;aH
sAmany:aH vipazc;it
;ava darSat
srava saty;amugrasya
ur;u jy;otiH
praTam;e v;iDarman
dev;avAtaH ;indrAya
v;Ajam sahasr;iZam
rakSoh;A vizv;acarSaZiH
raTasaMg;e D;ane
pate ;indo
arSati devAv;IH
n;a r;aTaH
soma sahasr;iZam
aryam;A iva
trivanDur;e r;aTe
s;omaH r;AjA
dev;aH vipany;uBiH
jigy;uSAm asi
y;uvA g;AH
citt;aH vip;A
udak;am pr;a
viv;asvataH p;atim
brahm;A pavamAna
zr;avaH g;Am
D;armaZA pr;a
;A sqjAn;aH
vizvamejaya t;uBya
ajyate devAv;IH
Azata y;am
viB;UvasuH s;omaH
iSZ;an s;Uryam
;A s;omaH
mahiS;aH vivakti
niSkqt;am g;oBiH
;aTa naH
;ixAm asm;aByam
j;uvaH rUp;am
k;AvyA s;aKA
s;ahaH ;invan
naH dev;avItaye
ay;am tr;iH
r;etasaH tv;am
d;akSAya naH
dev;avItaye s;inDuH
p;ari santi
eS;a zuSm;I
j;ayema soma
av;Ahan navat;IH
;indrasya janit;A
srava ;A
kqZv;an saMc;qtam
hinvAn;aH g;oH
naH Az;asaH
mAsi z;azvataH
ket;avaH vyAnaz;iH
dev;aH dev;An
p;avamAnaH akSAr
iSw;ayAmA n;AsatyA
pavamAna m;aDvA
p;avamAnasya te
D;ArAH akSaran
D;IrAH ;it
mah;Am indo
p;avasva dakSas;ADanaH
;indrAya vajr;iZe
aB;i svaranti
tv;am samudr;am
sut;aH zyen;aH
;aDi viSw;api
z;ucInAm p;avasva
m;aDu ;aramamAZaH
kS;ayaTaH s;OBagAya
r;aTye y;aTA
s;arasvatI duhe
iva viSw;apam
v;AcaH Ir;ayan
sqj;at ;azvam
rihanti mahiS;AH
bqh;at dv;AraH
s;a marmqjAn;aH
duhe aB;i
t;Urvaye p;avante
veD;ase s;omAya
enAH kav;ayaH
daDuH ganDarv;aH
Bqt;im n;a
ut;a soma
atiSWipat ap;aH
uSZ;an ;akrAn
;aZvyA z;UraH
sv;apAH asm;e
gqBZate vipazc;ite
mitr;Av;aruZA k;arAmahe
vqSw;im ;aCa
r;aTam ;indrasya
tr;I pav;itrA
t;apantam ;ati
m;aDu n;amasA
rohasi dyum;An
s;a ;indrAya
v;izvA vqtr;AZi
naH g;ayam
urv;I g;avyUtiH
kal;aze s;omaH
s;inDuH g;iraH
v;i jAyate
asi y;aH
tasT;O B;uvanAni
punAn;aH ;A
vAjay;uH anum;AdyaH
v;Ajam ;arSati
gAyatr;eZa gAyata
div;aH mUrD;A
s;adma pazum;Anti
r;AjAnam sukrato
hit;aH aB;i
s;atvaBiH p;avamAnaH
ukTy:am suS;ahA
v;iprAH avasy;avaH
aB;i s;aKyuH
;anti y;at
;adrimAtaram v;qSA
vacyasva camv:oH
kr;andan dev;An
sukr;atuH jajYAn;am
m;armqzat v;izvAni
s;a pav;itrA
v;evijAnaH ;it
Urm;O ;aDi
vqSaZy;antIByaH punAn;aH
agriy;aH v;qSA
praTam;AH agqBZata
gir;A nenikt;e
dyukS;am s;ahasaH
darzat;aH r;aTaH
Avat m;anum
;arZaH cam;USu
;induH janiSwa
saKAyaH puror;ucam
punAn;aH m;aDumAn
vAy;uH b;qhasp;atiH
sv:arpatI ;indraH
mah;aH gAh;At
s;omaH ;ahnaH
DIt;ayaH triD;AtuBiH
dv;iSaH jahi
c;atuSpade asm;e
rajast;uram gop;Am
t;e v;izvA
saMy;ataH qt;asya
m;aDvaH ay;Asam
razm;iBiH z;arDan
indo n;a
saKy;am Ay;an
mandr;ayA soma
vyata t;antum
vid;AH sahasr;iZIH
svast;aye sarv;atAtaye
s;omaH raTaj;it
r;aMhyA ;indram
u kqpanta
aBy-:aBi h;i
akramIt vAj;I
jahi ;aTa
d;ivam ay;am
Bara punAn;aH
indriy;AH h;ayAH
zAsate manIS;iZaH
vaDasno IVKaya
maG;onaH sut;AH
arSanti p;ayasA
amitr;iyam s;asniH
n;i miSanti
mar;utaH gaZ;ena
z;uciH pAvak;aH
kukS;A pavate
;A Baja
vay;am te
Gor;am ay;Asam
;adButaH z;uciH
;aCa sut;AH
v;arivAMsi kqZv;an
m;odAH ca
m;aDye pasty:AnAm
s;anitA D;anAni
tigm;e z;izAnaH
het;qBiH yat;aH
v;arivaH kqZv;an
paT;aH pratnav;at
papqcAn;asya te
sv:arcanAH ;indrAya
vid;at gAt;um
j;anantaH uS;asaH
ay;am naH
naH kqDi
y;oSA iva
;ajanayat s;Urye
sAkaMv;qDA p;ayasA
tripqSW;am mat;ayaH
D;AtA ;A
D;iyaH siSAs;atU
tvA mqjanti
soma svAd;uH
g;aviSwaye D;iyaH
y;atra Anand;AH
;A ant;arikSyA
dev;apsarAH asi
zr;avaH p;ari
;indrAya sicyate
pavasva sumqxIk;aH
suvit;Aya n;avyase
sunve t;uByam
p;ariSkqtam ;indum
akramIt ;arjunam
aDvary;uBiH g;uhA
asiSyadat r;akSAMsi
s;an y;onim
qt;am praTam;am
indo kal;aze
s;omaH j;Etrasya
tozate zrIZ;an
Danva s;AnO
h;Ardi somaD;Anam
;aDi priy;aH
pav;itraraTaH v;Ajam
;upa yAti
pUyate ajy;amAnaH
punAn;aH arSasi
t;uYjAnaH aB;i
aB;i arcAma
pIt;aH indo
h;arim nad;ISu
gavy;an eti
s;UraH ;etazam
ark;AH triSw;uBaH
s;a modate
niSW;AH vqSaB;aH
tvA vasuv;idam
te m;aDunA
sah;asrApsAH pqtanAS;Aw
vicakSaZa zuBr;am
divy;Am jigatn;um
n;avam jajYAn;am
IVKaya indo
mIXv;An pavate
v;aruZam samudr;e
v;arpAMsi duhit;uH
;A suv;Iryam
dyum;An jy;otiH
s;Idati j;ahAti
devam;AdanaH v;icarSaZiH
sah;asraBarZasam ;ati
vAy;ave b;qhasp;ataye
juSw;aH Diy;A
sv;asAraH ;aDi
g;uhyam c;Aru
janit;A div;aH
pIy;USam uttam;am
kqZuhi m;atsi
rayip;atI rayIZ;Am
sUr;ayaH azy;Ama
y;aTA z;arDAya
pat;ayantam ukS;aZam
saty;ena zradD;ayA
punarB;uvaH n;ABA
pavasva ;anaBizastA
vaH ;anDasaH
vicakSaZ;aH tv;am
;indavaH ;aCa
pariSicy;amAnaH ev;a
D;AmaBiH ;aDa
t;am n;araH
arSati aMz;um
m;adaH sAkaMv;qDA
r;aTyam n;avam
aYjate s;inDoH
;anapacyutA nAnAn;am
kqZu soma
n;a s;atvA
bADate v;i
p;ari vqtr;AZi
mimanti Den;avaH
h;arim aruS;am
vajr;iZe c;Arum
pariy;antam qgm;iyam
m;Am Dehi
vAy;oH ;indrasya
sahasr;iZam v;izvA
y;aH jin;Ati
sut;aH varivov;it
pavamAna pr;a
D;iyaH s;Urye
tv;am v;asUni
tasTire t;uByam
z;atrUn ay;A
mAt;qBiH marjayasi
usr;iyABiH ut;a
;aVgirastamaH m;aDvA
indo har;itaH
eS;a dev;aH
praj;Avat ray;im
p;avase D;Ama
t;AH Im
n;a z;izuH
vqtrah;A b;alam
naH ;A
soma D;AmaBiH
pavase ;A
Den;avaH z;izum
v;i sya
s;aKiByaH Ut;aye
haryat;aH m;adaH
ur;oH ;A
carAmasi t;at
amitrah;A v;icarSaZiH
gavy;uH naH
indray;uH m;aDvaH
jy;otIMSi pUrvya
ut;a sma
s;a pav;itre
varDa naH
n;a svay;ugvaBiH
dv;A j;anA
s;Urye jy;otiH
sah;asraBqSwiH jayati
;aram ;indrasya
pur;UZi baBro
praGnat;Am iva
indo asm;aByam
mad;intamAsaH p;ari
mah;e kS;ayAya
p;ari dyukS;aH
p;uraMDiH asmadry:ak
matsar;aH s;a
soma s;OBagA
h;ariH tir;aH
iva paptima
paTy:Am qt;asya
br;avan pariSkqZv;an
vicakSaZ;aH s;omaH
AhuH supraj;AH
zrIZ;anti Den;avaH
dqz;e hinv;anti
et;am u
sasqv;AMsaH n;a
meD;ABiH Iyate
riZ;an ap;aH
;induH D;ArABiH
m;adyaH m;adaH
vid;AH ray;im
vIr;eBiH ;azvEH
B;uvanA up;ari
goj;it azvaj;it
apIcy:am pad;am
sv;e ;A
kS;ara naH
cakre y;at
p;ari v;Acam
;A m;adaH
s;adma iva
s;adaH v;aneSu
y;onO ;amartyaH
nqm;AdanaH daDanv;An
antarikSapr;AH B;uvaneSu
v;asAnaH p;ari
asya pIp;ayat
uttam;am asm;e
v;arDate ;A
pr;a soma
duhyate Gqt;am
kr;Ixan h;ariH
;A suva
gaCati r;aZA
n;a mitr;aH
n;qz;aMsaH ur;u
div;i s;at
g;avAm dAn;Aya
vaH D;iyaH
;A aruhat
;arSan aB;i
jan;ayan jy;otiH
v;anAmahE s;omAH
u naH
c;aniSWayA s;a
d;akSiZA sqjyate
v;aneSu ;ava
devav;IH ;ati
z;avaH v;qSA
Bara mat;iBiH
pavamAna niSkqt;am
s;am arIta
pavasva aBimAtih;A
;A v;Ajam
indriy;Aya D;Ayase
c;atasraH n;ABaH
tanvanti p;OMsyam
sud;uGAH pUy;amAnaH
yatate darzat;aH
;adriBiH sut;am
;avarAn indo
azvas;AH asi
iva v;iSvak
naH iS;aH
;apa dv;ArA
kakS;Ivate zat;ahimAya
mitr;Aya pUSZ;e
sut;AH qt;asya
n;a takt;aH
vicakSaZa s;oma
bqh;at n;qBiH
eSi m;Ahinam
suk;armaBiH p;avasva
dvit;A Buvat
mat;I s;a
gqBZ;Ati ripr;am
asya s;enA
s;qtvA san;aye
aBavat ulokak;qt
sy;a v;ahniH
dakSas;ADanaH eS;a
m;aDoH D;ArA
ekAdaz;AsaH d;aza
v;izvA B;uvanAni
D;Ama zukr;aH
priy;A Buvat
hav;iH ;upa
zatas;AH ;amqDraH
pazum;Anti h;otA
hit;aH s;omaH
;iSaH bqhat;IH
v;izvAni kqZv;an
uzat;IH uz;antam
cam;USu D;IraH
s;acamAnaH samudr;am
s;omam ;indrAya
p;ari p;avantAm
zat;am naH
s;ADanam IzAn;am
nqc;akSAH Urm;iH
m;anasA jAyate
tv;am dy;Am
raT;inaH deva
y;atra r;aZanti
astu vAy;ave
;aha biBy;uSA
gir;A s;am
stan;ayantam ;akSitam
surAt;ayaH mitr;aH
yat;aH kqZute
n;AnAsUryAH sapt;a
suv;qDam nad;ISu
samiT;e tv;otayaH
sah;asraDAraH ;atyaviH
akSAr s;omaH
mar;utaH y;asya
v;izvA D;anAni
param;aH y;aH
sy;a m;adyaH
div;aH qt;asya
jihv;AyAH ;agre
tv;iSim d;aDAnaH
dev;AH ayAsiSuH
v;anA v;asAnaH
pratnav;at roc;ayan
s;Idan y;onA
raTeSW;Am aB;i
D;ArayA sut;aH
v;iprAH vacov;idaH
anUSata v;Aram
pav;itram te
ay;am s;arAMsi
v;AZIH v;anA
;ati pAraya
tir;aH r;oma
;aDi jAm;ayaH
tanvAn;aH triv;qtam
zakun;aH n;a
te m;adyam
eSi kqZv;an
v;aso v;asvaH
s;a sapt;a
savitar v;arSiSWEH
j;inva g;aviSwaye
iva duhe
sahasrajit p;ari
asqkSata gqZAn;AH
vrat;e j;anaH
dvip;ade c;atuSpade
rirIhi p;ari
ap;aH h;ariH
devav;ItamaH ;indo
samudr;An cat;uraH
devav;ItamaH v;izvA
naH DAntu
yAti kav;ikratuH
s;antam ;astqtam
uzanti v;izve
h;aritam Br;AjamAnam
vizvavit pr;a
D;Ama praTam;am
arSa divy;aH
cet;unA m;A
ary;aH ;adAzuSaH
;ati jaBriSe
tanvate pav;itram
sah;asraDAraH ;ati
;indrAya matsar;intamaH
sut;Aya mAdayitn;ave
p;uraMDI ap;aH
sut;e cit
samy;aYcaH mahiS;AH
apIparan samy;ak
m;adAya G;qSvayaH
vadanti bah;avaH
soma papqcAn;asya
y;at s;omaH
hinvanti agr;uvaH
pav;im prasav;e
veD;Am azAsata
m;qDaH v;izvAni
qtv;iyaH p;uraMDivAn
azv;inam ;indo
kAr;iZAm iva
kArmAr;aH ;azmaBiH
pUrv;IH z;izum
m;A naH
mqjy;ate h;ariH
p;avasva deva
aB;i D;Ama
vipqCat;e hit;aH
s;iSAsati div;aH
s;a zukr;aH
v;qSan indo
y;at y;onim
varD;aya v;Acam
en;A v;asUni
g;oBiH ajyase
y;aH tast;amBa
asi zukr;aH
;avye bqh;at
;iSaH aB;i
vanv;an ;avAtaH
Urm;ayaH ;atyaH
g;AvaH As;aBiH
et;e asqgram
im;am naH
;akSite ;indrAya
;A ant;ar
te srut;ayaH
janit;A r;odasyoH
m;aDumAn soma
Den;avaH pr;a
s;a asya
iva asarat
s;a mAmqje
;indram Azata
v;Aram ;A
zudD;aH dev;AnAm
yajY;am hinvanti
ISati ;A
g;ayam kqD;i
B;uvanasya rAjasi
jitam et;e
samudr;am ;indavaH
sut;aH indo
v;qSA h;i
vid;aTeSu ;induH
vizv;adevaH ;adAByaH
yAhi paT;iBiH
punAn;aH s;am
daDate dev;aH
sv:ar vidaH
ray;im divy;am
zuSm;I As;adam
pIt;aye m;adam
vraj;am div;aH
apIcy:am n;Ama
jigy;uSaH yaTA
akSaran v;arDantaH
sut;aH pavase
j;anyAsaH ;upa
draps;AsaH ;indavaH
suhastyaH zukr;A
u tvA
t;am sotAraH
samIcIn;AH anUSata
dr;oZeSu Ay;avaH
vAjay;um ;avyaH
cakrAZ;aH c;Arum
kal;aze d;aza
v;qSZaH h;arase
Diy;A man;otA
raMhate urugAy;asya
;etazaH pad;am
;asamaSwakAvyaH v;qSA
v;asUni ;At
sun;ota m;aDumattamam
s;a ut;a
m;aDumattamaH rAy;e
ty;am g;AvaH
div;aH pqSW;am
pavasva suv;Iryam
sahasraj;it y;am
viz;e m;ahi
;atyaH iva
c;etanaH priy;aH
camv:oH pUy;amAnaH
sat;aH pr;a
haMs;AsaH tqp;alam
mah;e ;indrAya
m;artAya dAz;uSe
qt;asya n;Avam
Urj;e v;i
ut;a v;iSZoH
vrat;eSu jAgqhi
acikradat p;avamAnaH
sah;asrAZi ca
v;oXA svAyuD;aH
n;a BIm;aH
;iti br;avan
m;aDumAn indra
v;qSA kav;iH
B;agaH ;asi
punAn;aH indriy;Aya
p;avamAnaH arSati
pr;a Danva
tir;aH v;ArAZi
samy;ak samy;aYcaH
pIt;aye tir;aH
p;ari v;arZam
h;ariH v;izvA
tiSWanti c;etasA
samudr;iyAH apsar;asaH
n;a AD;qSe
;A asadat
iCati y;adi
ugr;am t;akSat
rakSati vrat;am
vizanti madir;AsaH
mah;Am ;avInAm
;iBaH r;AjA
mqxaya s;a
tar;aDyE qZay;AH
asya v;izve
praj;Am ;iSam
sAnas;iH ;indrasya
vAy;oH saKy;Aya
v;Acam Asate
ca t;anayam
t;ava vay;am
zrut;e zrav;Ayyasya
k;anikradat dyum;antam
sakS;aZim y;Acante
;indum Dart;Aram
v;aha B;agattim
v;i jajYatuH
BakSIm;ahi praj;Am
sv;asAraH jAm;ayaH
purukqt purukSo
im;A ca
pavate sumeD;AH
aprAH r;odasI
yayO param;At
avy;ayam r;aTe
svan;At samasya
;ati pav;itram
s;acA vrat;Ani
dev;An s;omam
arSa purusp;qham
napt;IH ;aditeH
jan;ayan rocan;A
devap;AnaH mah;aH
tok;A t;anayAni
DAvanti ;indavaH
p;ari ;arAtIH
pav;itram ;A
s;amaneSu r;eBan
tvA aps;u
matsar;intamaH ;indrAya
mat;iH pqcy;ate
sapt;a v;iprAH
y;ayA s;Uryam
sapt;a jAm;ayaH
vyata div;aH
;azvyam sah;asradAtu
v;izvAni s;omaH
asadat n;i
;akSiti zr;avaH
aMz;oH Urm;im
gAhate rakSoh;A
turv;azam y;adum
Azata ;atra
viza pur;A
p;oSam sv;azvyam
v;ipram aB;i
;anu asmE
j;anasya divy;asya
vaH m;adAH
